M: November 2,
M: F A R G 0
M: Original screenplay by
M: Joel Coen and Ethan Coen
M: FARGO
M: The following text fades in over black:
M: This is a true story. The events depicted in this film
M: took place in Minnesota in 1987. At the request of the
M: sur.rivors the names have been changed. OUt of respect
M: for the dead, the rest has been told exactly as it
M: occurred.
M: FLARE TO WHITE
T: FADE IN FROM WHITE:
N: Slowly the white becomes a barely perceptible image: white particles wave over a white backgound. A snowfall. Wind whispers. Ominous music builds. With a low chord, a car bursts through the curtain of snow. The car is equipped with a hitch and is towing another car, a brandnew blue Cutlass Ciera with the pink sales sticker still showing in its rear window. As the cars roar past, leaving snow swirling in their draft, the title of the film fades in: .
C: FARGO
D: Gre~n highway signs point the way to MOOREHEAD ~~nnesota/FAR.GO North Dakota; the roads for the two cities diverg~; a sign says WELCOME TO NORTH DAKOTA and anot~er just after says NOW E?ITERIN~ FARGO ND POP. 44,412. The car pulls into a Rodeway !nu.
C: LOBBY
D: A man in his early forties, balding and starting to paunch, goes to the reception desk. The clerk is a woman of about the same age. Clerk And how are you today, sir? ~..an Real good now. !'m c~~=king in, ~~- Andersor..
N: As she types into a computer: Clerk Okay Mr. Anderson, and you're still planning on staying with us just the one night then? Anderson You bet.
C: HOTEL ROOM
D: The man turns on the TV; it shows the local 5:00 news. Dave Moore --whether they will go to summercamp at all. Katie Jensen has more. Katie It was supposed to be a project funded by the city council; it was supposed to benefit those Fargo/Moorehead children wh~ would otherwise not be able to afford a lakeshore summercamp. But nobody consulted city comptroller Stu Jacobson ...
E: anchor
C: RED LOBSTER
D: Anderson sits alone at a table eating the surf 'n turf. M..1zak plays. A middle-aged waitress approaches holding a pot of regular coffee in one hand and decaf in the other. Waitress Can I wann that up for ya there? You bet. Anderson {absently, The man looks at his watch.
C: THROUGH A WINDSHIELD
D: We are pulling into the snowswep: parking let of a one-story brick building. Broken neon at th~ top of the building identifies it as the Jolly Tro~ 1 1avern. J.. troll, also in nee: .. holds aloft a champagne glass.
C: INSIDE
D: The bar is downscale even for this town. Country muaic plays on the jukebox. We track toward two men seated in a booth at the back. One man is short, thin and young. The other man is older, dour. Tl.e table in f rent of them is littered with empty longneck beer bottles. The ashtray is full. Anderson approaches. Anderson I'm uh, Jerry Lundegaard. Uh, Shep Proudfoot said-- Younger Man Shep said you'd be here at 7:30. What gives, man? Lundegaard Shep said 8:30. Younger Man We been sitting here an hour. I've peed thre~ times already. Jerry I'm sure sorry I ... Shep told me e:3C. ~t was a mix-up I guess. Younger t-'..an Ya got the car? Jerry Yah, you bet. It's in the lot there. Brand new Cierra. Younger fv".ian Yeah okay, well siddow:: ther.. I'm Carl Rolvaag and this is mv associate Gaear Grimsrud. Jerry Yah, how ya doin'. So, uh, we all set on this thing then? Carl Sure, Jerry, we' re a.!.: set. Wl:y woi..ldn' t we be? Jerry Yah, no, I'm sure you are', Shep vouched for you and all. I got every confidence here ir. YC!U fellas. They stare at him. An awkward beat . . . . So I guess that's it then. Here's the keys-- Carl No that's not it, Jerry. Jerry . Huh? Carl The new Oldsmobile, plus forty thousand dollars. Jerry Yah, but, the deal was, the car first see, then the forty thousand, like as if it was the ransom. I thought Shep told you-- Carl Shep didn't tell us much, Jerry. Jerry Well, okay~ it's-- Carl Except that you were gonna be here at 7:30. Jerry Yah, well that was a mix-up then. Carl Yeah, you already said that. Jerry Yah . But it's not a whole pay-in-advance deal; I give you a brand new vehicle in advance, and-- Carl I'm not gonna debate you Jerry. Jerry Okay. Carl I'm not gonna sit here and debate. I will say this, though: What Shep told us didn't make a whole lot of sens~. Jerry
N: Oh no, it's real sound, it's all worked out. Carl You want your own wife kidnapped. Jerry Yah. Carl stares. Jerry looks blankly back. Carl ... You--my point is, you pay the ransom, what, eighty thousand bucks, I mean you give us half the ransom, forty thousand, you keep half, it's like robbing Peter to pay Paul, it doesn't make any-- Jerry Okay, it's--see it's not me payin' the ransom. The thing is, my wife, she's wealthy, her dad he's real well off. Now I'm in a bit of trouble-- Carl What kind of trouble are you in, Jerry? Jerry Well that's, that's, :m net go~r.a gc inta, inta--see I just need money. Now her dad's real wealthy-- Carl So why don't you just ask hirn rcr the money? Grimsrud, the dour older man who has not yet spoken, no~ so!~:y puts in, in a Swedish-accented voice: Grimsrud Or your fucking wife you kno~. Carl Or your fucking wife, Jerry. Jerry Well it's all jus~ part of this--they don't know I need it, seF. Okay sc there's that. And even if they did. I would~'t g~t it. So there's that on top then. See. these're personal matters. Carl Personal matters. Jerry Yah. Personal matters that needn't, uh-- Carl Okay Jerry. You're tasking us to pe=form this mission but you you won't ~h, you won't­ -aw fuck it let's take a look at that Cierra.
C: SUBURBAN HOUSE MINNEAPOLIS
D: Jerry enters through the kitchen--rear--door, wearing a parka and a red plaid Elmer Fudd hat. He stamps snow off his feet. He is carrying a bag of groceries which he deposits on the kitchen counter. He calls:
C: DEN
D: Jerry Hon? Got the growshries. Voice Thank you hon. How's Farg~? Jerry Yah, real good. Voice Dad's here. Jerry enters, pulling off his plaid cap. Jerry How ya doin', Wade? Wade Gustafson is mid-sixtyish, vigorous, with a f~:: head of gray hair. His eyes stay fixed on the TV. Wade Yah, pretty good. Jerry Whatcha watchin' there? Wade Norstars. Jerry is looking. Jerry ... Who they playin'? Wade OOOoooh! His reaction synchronizes with a reaction from the crowd.
C: KITCHEN
D: Jerry walks back in, taking off his coat. His wife is putting on an apron. Jerry Is he stayin' for supper then? Wife Yah, I think so. Calling through the door: ... Dad, are you stayin' for supper? Wade Yah.
E: nodding at the living room door off
C: DINING ROOM
D: Jerry, his wife, Wade, and Scotty, twelve years old, sit ea:in~. Scotty May I be excused? Jerry Sure, ya done there? Scot:y Uh-huh. Goin' OUL. Wife Where are you going? Scotty Just out. Just McDonald's. Jerr 1 Back at 9:30. Scotty Okay. Wade He just ate. And he didn't finish. He's going to McDonald's instead of finishing here? Wife He sees his friends there. It's okay. Wade It's okay? McDonald's? What do you think they do there? They don't drink milkshakes, I assure you! Wife It's okay, Dad. Jerry Wade, have ya had a chance to think about, uh, that deal I was talkin' about, those forty acres there on Wayzata. Wade You told me about it. Jerry Yah, you said you'd haver think about it. I understand it's a lot of money-- Wade A heck of a lot. What'd you say yo~ w~re gonna put there? Jerry A lot. It's a limited-- Wade I know it's a lot. Jerry I mean a parking lo:. Wade Yah, well, S750,000 is a lot--ha ha ha! Jerry Yah, well it's a chunk, but-- Wade I had a couple lots, late fifties. Lost a ,I'-'
N: l .......
C: WHITE
D: lot of money. A "lot" of money. Jerry Yah, but-- Wade I thought you were gonna show it to Stan Grossman. He passes on this stuff before it gets kicked up to me. Jerry Well you know Stan'll say no dice. That's why you pay him. I'm asking~ here, Wade. This could work out real good for me and Jean and Scotty-- Wade Jean and Scotty never have to worry. A black line curls through the white. Twisting perspective reveals that it is an aerial shot of a two-lane highway bordered by snowfields; one moving shape is a car.
C: INSIDE THE CAR
D: Carl Rolvaag is driving; Gaear Grimsrud sits next to him. After a long beat: Grimsrud Where is Pancakes Hause. Carl What? Grimsrud We stop at Pancakes Hause. Carl What're you nuts? We had pancakes fo~ break­ fast. I gotta go somewhere I can get a sho: and a beer--and a steak mAybe. Not more fuckin' pancakes. Come o~. Grimsrud gives him a sour looY. . ... Come on, man. Okay, here's an idea. We'll stop outside of Brainerd. I know a place there we can get laid. Wuddya think? Grimsrud squints at Carl through a plume of cigarette smoke. Grimsrud I'm fucking hungry now you know. Carl Yeah, yeah, Jesus--I'm sayin', we'll stop for pancakes, then we'll get laid. Wuddya think?
E: softly
C: GUSTAFSON OLDS
D: Jerry is sitting in his glassed-in salesman's cubicle just off the showroom floor. Across the desk from him sit an i=ate customer and his wife. Customer We sat here righ~ in this roo~ and we~: ov~r this and over this! Jerry Yah, but that TruCoat-- Customer I sat right her~ and said 1 didr.'t wa~: nc Tn1Coat- - Jerry Yah, but I'm sayin', that TruCoat, yo~ de~: get it, and you get oxidization proble~s, it'll cost you a heck of a lot rnc=er: f:.v; hunnert-- Custom€:r You're sittin' here, you're talkin' ir. circles! You're talkin' like we didn't g~ over this already! Jerry Yah, but this TruCoa~-- Customer We had us a deal here for ninet~en-five. Yo~ sat there and darned if you dia~t tell me you'd get me this car. these optlor.s, WITHOU:­ THE SEALANT, for nine:ee~-five! Jerry Okay, I'm not sayin' I didn't-- customer You called me twenty minutes ago and said you had it! Ready to make delivery y~ says! Come on down and get it! And here ya are and you're wastin' ~ time and you're wastin' my wife's time and I'm payin' nineteen-five for this vehicle here! Jerry Well, okay, I'll talk to my boss ... He rises and, as he leaves: ... See, they install that TruCoat at the factory, there's not.bin' we can do, but I'll talk to my boss. The couple watches him go into a nearby cubicle. Customer These guys here--these guys! It's always the same! It's always more! He's a liar! Wife Please, dear. Custome=­ He's a goddamn--
C: NEAR.BY CUBICLE
D: Jerry sits perched on the desk of another sales~a~ ~ho is eati~~ his lunch and watching a hockey game on a srr.all portable TV. Jerry So you're goin' tot.he Gophers o~ $l;r.day? Salesman You bet. Jerry You wouldn't have an extra tick~t ther~? Salesman They're playin' the Buckeyes! Jerry Yah. r Salesman You kiddin' !
C: JERRY'S CUBICLE
D: As he reenters. Jerry Well, he never done this before, but seein' as it's special circumstances and all he says I can knock one hunnert off that Trucoat. Customer One hundred! You lied to me Mr. Lundegaard. You're a baldfaced liar! Jerry sits staring at his lap .
C: WIDE EXT
D: . . . A fucking liar-- Wife Please, Bucky-- Jerry {softly into his lap; One hunnert's the bes: we can do here. 'Course you can go out to Hopkins, try to make a better-- Customer Oh for Christ sake, where's my goddarn.~ checkbook. Let's get this over with.
E: disgusted
C: TRUCK STOP
D: There is a restaurant with many big rigs parked around it, and a motel with an outsize ~aul Bunyan and Babe the Blue Ox ilanki~~ its sign: BLUE ox MOTEL.
C: MOTEL ROOM
D: Carl Rolvaag and Gaear Grimsrud are in the twin beds having sex with two truck-stop hookers. Carl Oh, Jesus, yeah.
C: LATER
D: His Hooker There ya go, sugar. Grimsrud Nnph. His Hooker Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. The couples lie in their respective beds gazing offscreen at the TV set. Ed McMahon --Johnny's guests tonight will be Lee Majors, George Wendt, and Steve Boutsikaros from the San Diego Zoo so keep that dial--
C: LUNDEGAARD KITCHE~ MORNING
D: We hear a morning show on the television; Jean Lundegaard is making coffee in the kitchen as Scott eats cereal at the table. Jean I'm talkin' about your potential. Scott Uh-huh. Jean You're not a C student. Scott Uhn. Jean And yet your gettin' C grades. It's that disparity there that concern~ your Dad and me. Scot: Uh-huh. Jean You know what a disparity is? Scott Yeah! Jean Okay. Well that's why we don't want ya goin' out fer hockey. Scott Oh, man! The phone rings. What's the big deal? It's an hour-­ Jean Hold on. She is picking up the phone. . . . Hello? Phone Voice Yah, hiya hon. Jean Oh, hiya Dad. Wade Jerry around? Jean Yah, he's still here--I'll catc~ hi~ fo= ya. She holds the phone away and calls; Hen? Voice Yah . Jean It's Dad. Voice Yah. Jerry enters in his shirtsleeves and tie. Yah, okay. . . Scott Look Dad, there is no ! .::i<ing way- -
E: absently testily
N: I Jean Scott! Jerry Say, let's watch the language-- Be takes the phone . . . . How ya doin', Wade? Wade What's goin on there? Jerry Oh, nothing Wade. How ya doin' there? Wade Stan Grossman looked at your proposal. Says it's pretty sweet. Jerry No kiddin'? Wade We might be interested. Jerry No kiddin' ! I'd need the cash pretty quick, there. In order to close the deal. Wade Come by at 2:30 and we'll talk about it. If your numbers are right, Stan says its pretty sweet. Stan Grossman. Jerry Yah. Wade Click. Dial tone. Jerry Yah, okay.
C: GUSTAFSON OLDS GARAGE
D: lS Jerry is wandering through the service area where cars are b~:;.;
N: worked on. He stops by an Indian in blue jeans who is looking at the underside of a car that sits on a hydraulic lift with a hanging cage light. Jerry Say Shep, how ya doin' ther~? Shep Mn. Jerry Say ya know those two fellas ya put me in touch with, up there in Fargo. Shep Put you in touch with Grimsrud. Jerry Well yah but he had a buddy there, he uh-- Shep Well I don't vouch for him. Jerry Well that's okay, I j~st-- Shep I vouch for Grimsrud. Who's his buddy? Jerry Carl somethin'? Shep Never heard of him. Don't vouch for him. Jerry Well that's okay, he's a buddy of the guy ya vouched for so I'm not worryin'. I just, I was wonderin', see I gotta get ir. touch with 'em, see this deal I needed 'em for, I might not need it anymore, sumpr.'s happenin', see-- Shep Call'm up. Jerry Yah, well see I did that, and! haven't be~n able to get 'em so: though~ you maybe'd know an alternate number or wha:. havi: ya. Shep Nope. Jerry slaps his fist into his open palm and snaps his fingers. Jerry Okay, well real good then.
C: CAR
D: Carl is driving, Grimsrud staring out the front. After a beat: Carl ... Look at that. Twin Cities. I.D.S. Building, the big glass one. Tallest skyscraper in the Midwest. After the Sears, uh, Chicago. Grimsrud looks. You never been to Minneapolis. Grimsrud No. Ca::-1 ... Would it kill you to say something? Grimsrud Just did. Carl "No." First thing you've s~id ir. the lase four hou;-s. Grimsrud shrugs . . . . That's a, that's a fountai~ c! conversation, . man. That 's a geyse:-. ! rnea:; whoa daddy, stand back, man. Shit, !'rn sittin' her~ driving, man, doin' a2l the driving, whole fucking way from Brainerd, drivin', tryin' to, you kr.o~, tryin' to chat, keep our spirits up, fight the boredom of the road, and you can't say one fucking thing just in the way of conversation. Grimsrud smokes, gazing out the window . . . . Well fuck it, I dor.~ have to talk either, man. See how~ like it. Just
N: total fuckin' silence. Ya know? Two can play at~ game. Smart guy. We'll just see how~ like it .... Uh-huh ... We'll just see how you fuckin' like it--
C: JERRY'S CUBICLE
D: He is on the phone. Jerry Yah, real good, how you doin'? Voice Pretty good, Mr. Lundegaard. You're damned hard to get on the phone. Jerry Yah, it's pretty darned busy here, but that's the way we like it. Voice That's for sure. Now I just need, on these last, these financing documents you sent us, I can't read the serial numbers of the vehicles on here, so I ... Jerry But I already got the, it's okay, the loans are in place, I already got the, the what, the-- Voice Yeah, the $320,000, you got the money last month. Jerry Yah, so we're all set. Voice Yeah, but the vehicles you were borrowing on, I just can't read the serial nurrbers on your application. Maybe i! you could just read them to me-- Jerry But the deal's already done, I already got the money-- Voice Yeah but, we have an audit here, I just have
C: I
D: to know that these vehicles you're financing with this money, that they really exist ... Jerry Yah, well they exist all right. Voice I'm sure they do--ha ha! But I can't read their serial nwnbers here. So if you could read me-- Jerry Well but see, I don"t have em in front a me­ -why don't I just fax you over a copy-- Voice No, fax is no good, that's what I have and I can't read the damn thing-- Jerry Yah, okay I'll have my girl send you a copy then. Voice Okay, because if I can't correlate this note . with the specific vehicles, then I got.ta call back that money-- Jerry \ Yah, how much money was that? Voice $320,000. See, I gotta correlate that money with the cars it's being lent on. Jerry Yah, no problem, I'll just fax that. over t.o ya then. Voice No no, fax is-- Jerry I mean send it over. I 11 shoot it rigr:: over to ya. Voice Okay. Jerry Okay, real good then
C: I CLOSE ON TELEVISION
D: Bill Carlson is standing in front of a counter on a kitchen set in a television studio, wearing an apron. Carlson So I seperate the--how the heck do I get the egg out of the shell without breaking it!?
C: CLOSE ON JEAN
D: Curled up on the couch with a cup of coffee, watching the television. Woman's Voice You just prick a little hole in the end and blow! Jean smiles as we hear laughter and applause from the studio audience. She hears something else- -a faint scraping sound- -and .= looks up. Carlson Okay, here goes nothing. The scraping sound persists. Jean sets down her coffee cup and rises. From the studio audience: Audience Awooooo!
C: THE KITCHEN
D: We track towards the back door. A curtain is stretched tig~: across its window. Jean pulls the curtain back . Bright sunlight amplified by sr.o~ floods in. A man in an orange ski mask looks up from the lock. She gasps, drops the curtain, turns and runs into-- A taller man, also in a ski mask--already in the house. We hear the crack of the back-do~~ window being smashed. The tall man--Gaear Grimsrud--g~ats Jean's wrist.
N: I She screams, staring at her own imprisoned wrist, then wraps her gaping mouth around Grimsrud's gloved thumb and bites down hard. He drops her wrist; as Carl enters she races up the stairs. Grimsrud Unguent. Carl Huh? Grimsrud looks at his thumb. I need. Grimsrud unguent. We hear footsteps upstairs. The two men look up.
C: UPSTAIRS BEDROOM
D: As the two men enter, a door at the far side is slamming shut. A cord snakes in under the door.
C: MASTER BATHROOM
D: Jean, sobbing, frantica-lly pushes at buttons on the princess phone .. The phone pops out of her hands, jangles across the tile floe=. smashes against the door and then bounces away, its cord having been ripped free. With a groaning sound the door shifts in it5 fra~~-
C: BEDROOM
D: Grimsrud has a crowbar jammed in between the bathroom d~c~ frame, and is working it.
C: BATHROOM
D: --­c. - Jean crosses to a high window aoove the toilet and throws it open. Snow that had drifted against the window sifts lightly"­ Jean steps up onto the toilet.
C: THE DOOR
D: i ! Creaking as it moves, as one piece, in its frame. She glance& back as she steps up from the toilet seat to the tank.
C: THE DOOR
D: The jiggling culminates with the wood around the knob splintering and the knob itself falling out onto the floor. The door swings open. Grimsrud and Rolvaag enter.
C: THEIR POV
D: Room empty, window open. Rolvaag strides to the window and hoists himself outside. Grimsrud opens the medicine cabinet and delicately taps aside various bottles and tubes, in search of the proper unguent. He finds a salve but after a moment sets it down, noticing something in the mirror. The shower curtain is drawn around the tub. He steps toward it. As he reaches for the curtain there is a scream and it explodes outward, animated by thrashing limbs. Jean, tangled in the curtain, rips it from its stays and sturn=les out into the bedroom. Grirnsrud follows.
C: BEDROOM
D: Jean rushes toward the door, cloaked by the shower curtain b~: awkwardly trying to push it off.
C: UPSTAIRS LANDING
D: Still thrashing, Jean half-crashes against the upstairs railing, half-trips on the curtain, and falls, thumping crazily down the stairs. Grimsrud trots down after her.
C: A PLAQUE: WADE GUSTAFSON INCORPORATED INSIDE WADE'S OFFICE
D: Wade sits behind his desk; another man rises as Jerry enters. Jerry How ya doin' there, Stan. How are ya, Wade. Stan Grossman shakes his hand. Stan Good to see ya again, Jerry. If these numbers are right, this looks pretty sweet. Jerry Oh, those numbers are righ: all right, bleemee. Wade This is do-able. Stan Congratulations, Jerry. Jerry Yah, thanks Stan, it's a pretty-- Wade What kind of finder's fee were you lcckin~ for? Jerry . Huh? Stan The financials are pretty thorough, so the only thing we don't know is your fee. My fee? talkin' about? Jerry Wade, what the heck're yo~ Wade Stan and l"re okay. Jerry Yah. Wade We're good to load in. Jerry Yah. Wade But we never talked about your fee for bringin' it to us. Jerry No, but Wade, see, I was bringin' you this deal for you to loan~ the money to put in. It's my deal here, see? Wade scowls, looks at Stan. Stan Jerry--we thought you were bringin' us an investment. Jerry Yah, right-- Stan You're sayin'--what're you sayin'? Wade You're sayin' that we put in all the money and you collect when it pays off? Jerry No, no, I--I'd, I'd--pay you back the principal, and interest--heck, I'd go--one ove::- prime-- Stan We're not a bank, Jerry. Wade is scowling at hin~. Wade What the heck, Jerry, if I wanted~ interest on seven hunnert'n fifty thousand I'd go to Midwest Federal. Talk to Bill Diehl. Stan He's at Norstar. Wade He's at-- Jerry No, see, I don't need a finder's fee, I need­ -finder's fee"s, what, ten percent, heck that's not gonna do it for me. I need the principal. Stan Jerry, we"re not going to just~ you $750,000. Wade What the heck were you thinkin'? Heck, if I'm only gettin' bank interest, I'd look for complete security. Heck, FDIC. I don't see nothin' like -'hat here. Jerry Yah, but I--okay, I would, I'd guarantee ya your money back. Wade I'm not talkin' about your damn~. Jerry. Geez, what the heck're you ... Well look, this here's a good deal and we got the resources to make it happen. I don't want to cut you out of the loop, but I assume if you're not innarested in this deal you won't mind if we move on it innapend~r.:ly.
C: PARKING LOT
D: We are high and wide on the parking lot of a one-sto::y offic~ park. Jerry emerges wrapped up in a parka, his arms stickin; stiffly out at his sides, his breath vaporizing. He goes to h:~ car, opens its front door, pulls out a red pl asr.ic scraper, and starts methodically scraping off tLe thin crus: of ice that hAs developed on his windshield. The scrape-scrap~-scrap~ sc~~j carries in the frigid air. Jerry momentarily goes into a frenzy, banging the s~rap;~ aga:~s: the windshield and the hood of his ca~. The tantrum passes. Jerry stands panting, staring at nothing i~ particular. Scrape-scrape-scrape--he goes back to work on his windshield .
C: FRONT DOOR
D: Later. A beat, silent but for a key scraping at the lock. The door swings open and Jerry edres in, looking about, holding a sack of groceries. Jerry Hon ... ? He shuts the door . . . . I got the growshries . .. He has already seen the shower curtain on the floor. He frowns, pokes at it with his foot . . . Hon?
C: UPSTAIRS BATHROOM
D: Jerry walks in, tentative, scowling . He sets the groceries down on the toilet tank. He looks at the open window, throug~ which sno~ still sif:s i::. shuts it. He picks up the small tube of unguent that sits on the sink, frowns at it, puts it back in the medicine ches:. He looks at the shower curtai~ rings sitting empty on the curta:~ rod.
C: FOYER
D: Once again we are looking at the shower c~rtain. Rumpled. Still. From another room: Jerry's Voic-? Yah Wade, I--it'S Jerry, I .. A beat. Then, slightly more agitated: . . . Yah Wade, it ~, I . it s Jer:-y . Beat.
N: Beat. ... Wade, it's Jerry, I--we gotta talk, Wade, it's somethin'--it's terrible ...
C: LIVING ROOM
D: In wide shot Jerry stands, hands on hips, looking down at the phone on a coffee table. After a motionless beat he picks up the phone, punches in a number, and: Jerry ... Yah, Wade Gustafson please.
C: BLACK
D: We hear the rumble of wheels on pavement. A headlit sign rushes at us out of the dark: WELCOME TO BRAINERD--Home of Paul Bunycn and Babe The Blue Ox. INT CAR Carl is driving down a deserted stretch of highway. Grimsrud smokes _ and gazes out the window. From the back seat we hear whimpering. Grirnsrud twists around to look. Jean lies bound and curled up or. the back seat underneat~ a tarpaulin . Grimsrud Shut the fuck up or I'll throw you back in the trunk, you know. Carl Jeez. That's more'n I've heard you say all week. Grimsrud stares at him for a beat, then turns back to the windo~ . With a loud WHOOP Carl starts and 1 ooks back out the rear w r.:i:n,.- . Fifty yard behind them a state trooper has jus: turned on h s gumballs. Carl turns the car onto the shou:d~r. Carl Ah shit, the tags .. Grimsrud looks at him . . . . It's just the tags. I never put my tags on the car. Don't worry, I'll take care of this. He looks into the back seat as the car bounces and slows on the gravel shoulder . . . . Let's keep still back there, lady, or we're gonna have to, ya know, to shoot ya. Grimsrud hasn't moved. He looks slowly over at Carl. Carl Hey! I'll take care of this! Both cars have stopped. Carl looks up at the rear view mirror.
C: HIS POV
D: In the mirror. The trooper is stopped on the snowy shoulder jus~ behind them, writing something in his citation book.
C: BACK TO CAR:..
D: As he twists around in his seat. We hear the trooper's door open.
C: HIS POV
D: The trooper is walking up the st.oulder, one hand resting ligt.:ly on top of his holster, his breath vaporizing in the cold nigtt air. Carl looks around as the trooper app~ars at his windo',ir;. Carl How can I help you, officer? The trooper scans the inside of the car, taking his time. Grimsrud smokes and gazes calmly out the window. Finally: Trooper
N: This a new car then, sir? Carl It certainly is, officer. Still got that smell! Trooper You're required to display temporary tags, either in the plate area or taped inside the back window. Carl Certainly-- Trooper Can I see your license and registration please? Carl Certainly. Reaching for his wallet . . . . I was gonna tape up the temporary tag, ya know, to be in full compliance, but it wi, it uh ... must a slipped my mind .. He is extending his wallet toward the trooper, a fifty dollar bill folded and protruding from the billfold . . . . So maybe the best thing would be to take care of that, right here in Brainerd. Trooper What's this, sir? Carl That's my license and registration. I wanna be in compliance. He laughs nervously . . . . I was just thinking 1 could take care of it right here. In Brainerd. Grimsrud looks at him with narrowed eyes. The policeman thoughtfully pats th~ fifty into the billfold and hands the billfold back into the car. Troope:- Put that back in your pock~: please. The nervous smile fades from Carl's lips . . . . And step out of the car please, sir. Grimsrud, smiling thinly, shakes his head. There is a whimpering sound. The policeman hesitates. Another sound. The policeman leans forward into the car, listening. Grimsrud reaches across Carl, grabs the trooper by the hair and slams his head down across the window sash. The policeman grunts, digs awkwardly for footing outside, throws an arm for balance against the outside of the car. With his free hand Grimsrud pops the glove compartment. He brings a gun out, reaches across Carl, and shoots--BAN~--point blank into the back of the trooper's head. Jean screams. Grimsrud Shut up. He releases the policeman.
S: EXT. CAR
N: The policeman's head slides out the window and his body flops back onto the street.
S: INT. CAP.
N: Carl looks out at the cop in the road. Ca:-1 (softlyi Whoa . .. Whoa Daddy . Grimsrud takes the trooper's hat off. cf Carl's lap and sails out the open window. Grimsrud You'll take care of it. Boy, are you smooth, man, you know. Carl Whoa Daddy. Jean, for acme reason, screams again. Then stops. Grimsrud glances in back, then looks at Carl. Grimsrud Clear him off the road. Carl Yeah. He gets out.
C: THE ROAD
D: Carl leans down to hoist up the body and is caught in the headlights of an approaching car.
C: TRACK IN
D: on Grimsrud--his eyes narrowing.
C: THE CAR
D: approaching, slowing down.
C: CARL
D: With the body hoiscej halfway up, frozen in the headlights lik~ a startled deer.
C: THE CAR
D: Accelerating and roaring past and away. We just make cut th~ silhouettes of two occupants in the front sea:.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: Sliding over into the drive~s seac. He screams into a u-curr., the driver's door slamming shut from the acceleration.
C: HIS POV
D: Small red tail lights fishtail ur ahead. The car churns up fir.: snow.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: Tares the cigarette out of his mouth and stamps it out in his ashtray. We hear the churning of the car wheels and the pinging of snow clods and salt on the car's underside. In the back seat, Jean starts screaming.
C: HIS POV
D: Not gaining on the tail lights.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: Fighting with the wheel as his car swims a little on the road face.
C: HIS POV
D: The red tail lights start to turn--with a distant crunching sound, they disappear. The headlights only show empty road, starting to turn.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: Frowning. He slows.
C: HIS POV
D: His headlights show the car up ahead off the road, crumpled around a telephon~ pole, having failed to hold a turn.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: Hits his break.
C: JEAN
D: Slides off the back seat and thumps into the legwell.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: Sweeps his gun off the front seat, throws open his door and gets out.
C: EXTERIOR
D: The wrecked car's headlights shine off into a snowfield abutting the highway. A young man in a down parka is limping across the snowfield, away from the wrecked car. Grimsrud strides calmly out after the injured boy. He raises his gun and fires. With a poof of feathers a hole opens up in the boy's back and he collapses in the snow. Grimsrud walks up next to the prostrate body and fires again. He turns and walks away.
C: TF.E WRECK
D: Grimsrud throws open the passenger door. A young woman is trapped inside the twisted wreckage, badly injured.
C: LONG SHOT THE WRECK
D: Snow swirls in the headlights of th~ two cars. Grimsrud is a . dark figure against the snow. He raises his gun and fires one shot into the wreck.
C: AN OIL PAINTING
D: Of a Blue-Winged Teal in flight over a swampy marshland . The roo~ in which ie hangs is dark. We hea= snoring offscreen. We track off to reveal an easel upon which we see a half­ completed- oil of a Grey Mallard . The continuing track reveals a couple in bed, sleeping . The rr.a~. fortyish, pyjama-clad, is big, and big-bellied. His mout~ is agape. He is snoring. His arms ar~ flung over a woman in he~ thirties, wearing a nightie, mouth also open, not snoring. We hold for a long beat on their regular breathing and snoring.
N: i The phone rings. The woman stirs. Oh geez. Woman She reaches for the phone. Hi, it's Marge. The man stirs, clearing his throat with a long deep rumble . . . . Oh my. Where? ... Yah ... Oh geez ... The man sits up, gazes stupidly about . . . . Okay. There in a jif ... Real good then. She hangs up, looks at the man . . You can sleep hon. It's early yet. Man Gotta go? She is getting out of bed. Marge Yah. The man swings his legs out. Man I'll fix ya some eggs. ~.arge That's okay, hon. I gotta run. ~~ Man -Gotta eat a breakfast, Marge. I' 11 f i>: ya some eggs. Marge Aw, you can sleep hon. Man Ya gotta eat a breakfast. He clears his throat with another deep rumble. . I'll fix ya some eggs. Marge Aw, Norm.
C: PLATE
D: Leavings of a huge plate of eggs, ham, toast.
C: THE TABLE
D: Marge is now dressed in a beige police uniform. A patch on the a:rm says BRAINERD POLICE DEPARTMENT. She also wears a heavy belt that holds a revolver, walkie-talkie, and various other jangling police impedimenta. Norm is in a dressing gown. Marge Thanks hon. Time to shove off. Norm Love ya, Margie.
N: I""' As she struggles into a parka: Marge . Love ya, hon. He is exiting back to the bedroom; sh: exits out the fron: door. For a beat we hold on the empty kitchen. Then the front door opens again and Marge enters, stamping snow off her boots. From off:
C: HIGHWAY
D: Marge Hon? Norm Yah? Marge Prowler needs a jump. Dawn. A police car pulls into the foreground and its driver door opens, showing the s~al of the BRAINERD POLICE DEPARTMENT. Marge gets out. Hiya Lou. Marge Another policeman is approaching holding two coffees in cardboard cups. Margie. warm-up. Lou Thought you might need a little Marge Yah, thanks a bunch. So what's the deal, now. Gary says triple homicide? Lou Yah, looks pretty bad. Two of'm're over here. They trudge toward the w~eck.
C: WIDER
D: Laid out in -the early morning light is the wrecked car, a pair of footprints leading out to a man in a bright orange parka face down in the blood-stained snow, and one pair cf footsteps lead:r.~ back to the road. Marge A."1, geez. So. She looks in the car . . . . Aw, geez. Here's the second one. It's in th~ head and the ... hand ~~ere, I guess that's a defensive wound. Okay. Marge looks up from th~ car . . Where's the state trooper? Lou jerks -~is thumb. Lou B~ck there a good piece. In the ditch next to his prowlex. Marge looks around at the road. Marge Okay, so we got a troop@r pulls someone over, we got a shooting, and these folks drive by, and we got a high-speed pursuit, ends here, and this execution-type deal. Lou Yah. Marge I'd be very surprised if our suspect was from Brainerd. Lou Yah. Marge is studying the ground intently. Marge Yah. And I'll tell you what, from his footprint he looks like a big fella-- Marge suddenly doubles over putting her head between her knees down near the snow. Lou Ya see something down there, Chief? Marge Uh--1 just, I think I"m gonna barf. Lou Geez, you okay Margie? Marge I'm fine--it's just morning sickness-- She gets up, sweeping snow from her knees. Well, that passed. Lou Yah? ?l.arge Yah. Now I'm hungry again. Lou You had breakfast yet, Margie? Marge- Oh yah. Norm made some eggs. Lou Yah? Well what now d'ya think? Marge Let's go take a look at that trooper. BY THE STATE TROOPER'S CAR Marge's prowler is parked nearby. Marge is on her hands and knees by a body down in the ditch, again looking at footprints in the snow. She calls up to the road: !'.i.arge There's two of 'em, Lou! Lou Yah? Marge Yah, this guy's smaller than his buddy.
C: DOWN IN THE DITCH
D: Ir. the foreground is the head of the state trooper, facing us; peering at it from behind, still on her hands an:: knees, is !'.i.arge. Marge Fer Pete's sake ... She gets up, clapping the snow off her hands, and climbs o~: c! the ditch. Lou Ho~s it look, Marge? Marge Well he's got his gun on his hip there, and he looks like a nice enough guy. !t's a real shame. Lou Yah. Murg-: You haven't monkeyed wi:h his car t~ere, have ya? Lou Ne way.
N: She is looking at the prowler, which still idles on the shoulder.
C: PROWLER
D: Marge is He: looks Marge Somebody cut his lights. guy sat in there, waitin' t'come back. Lou I guess the little for his buddy Yah, woulda been cold out here. Marge Heck yah. Ya think, is Dave open yet? Lou You don't think he's mixed up in-- Marge No no, I just wanna get Norm some night crawlers. driving; Lou sits next to her. Marge You look in his citaticn book? Lou Yah . . at his notebook. Lou Last vehicle he wrote in was a blue Cierra at 2:18 A.M. Under the plate number he put DLR so I got the state lookin' for a Ci~rra with a tag startin' DLR. They don't got no match yet. Marg~ Uh-huh. Lou I figure they stopped hi~ or shot him before he could finish fillin ' out the tag number. Marge I'm not sure I agree with you a hunnert percent on your policework there, Lo~. i Lou Yah? Marge Yah, I think that vehicle there probly had dealer plates. DLR? Lou Oh. Lou gazes out the window, thinking.
C: THE ROAD
D: Geez. Marge Yah. Say Lou, ya hear the one 'bout the guy he couldn't afford personalized plates, so he went and changed his name to J2L 4685? Lou Yah that's a good one. Marge Yah. The police car enters with a whoosh and hums on into the background along a straight-ruled empty highway, cutting througt a landscape of flat and perfect white.
C: EMBERS FAMILY RESTAURANT
D: Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit in a booth sipping coffe~. Outside the window snow falls from a gunmetal sky. Wade --All's I know is, ya got a problem, ya call a professional! Jerry No! They said no cop~~ They were darned clear on that, Wade! They said you call your cops and we-- Wade Well a course theyr~ g~r.~a say that! But where's my protectior.: 7hey got Jean here! i I give these sons a bitches a million dollars, where's my guarantee they're gonna let her go?! Jerry Well, they-- Wade A million dollars is a lot a damn money! And there they are, they got my daughter! Jerry Yah, but, think this thing through here Wade, ya give 'em what they want, why won't they let her go! You gotta listen to me on this one Wade. Wade Heck, you don't know! You're just whistlin' Dixie here! I'm sayin', the cops, they can advise us on this! I'm sayin' call a professional! Jerry No! No cops! That's final! This is my deal here, Wade! Jean is my wife here! Stan I gotta tell ya, Wade, I'm leanir.' to Jerry's viewpoint here. Wade Well-- Stan We gotta protect Jean. These--we're not holdin' any cards here, Wade, ttey go: all o~ 'em . So they call the shots. Jerry You're darn tootin' ! Wade Ah, damnit! Stan I'm tellin' ya. Wade: Well ... Why don't we . He saws a finger under his nose . ... Stan, I'm thinkin' we should offer 'em half a million. Jerry Now come on here, no way, Wade! No way! Stan We're not horse-trading here Wade, we just gotta bite the bullet on this thing. Jerry Yah! Stan What's the next step here, Jerry? Jerry They're gonna call, give me instructions for a drop. I'm supposed to have the money ready tomorrow. Wade Damnit.
C: THE CASHIER
D: As she rings up $2.40. Cashier How was everything today? Jerry hands her money as behind him, Wade and Stan Grossman shrus into parkas and pull on mittens. Jerry Yah, real good now.
C: PARKING LOT
D: Snow continues to fall. Jerry, and Stan stand bundled up in their parkas and galoshes next to their beached vehicles. Wade sits behind the wheel of an idling Lincoln waiting for Stan. Stan Okay. We'll get the money together. Don't worry about it, Je=ry. Now, d'you want anyone at home, with you, til they call? Jerry I
N: No, I--they don"t want--they"re just s'posed to be dealin' with me, they were real clear. Stan Yah. Jerry pounds his mittened hands together against the cold. Jerry Ya know, they said no one listenin' in, they'll be watchin' ya know. Maybe it's all bull but like you said, Stan, they're callin' the shots. Stan Okay. And Scotty, is he gonna be all right? Jerry Yah, geez, Scotty. I'll go talk to him. There is a tap at the horn from Wade and S.tan gets into the Lincoln. Stan We'll call. The Lincoln spits snow as it grinds out of the lot and fishtails out onto the snowy boulevard .
C: SCOTTY'S BEDROOM
D: He lies on the bee, weeping. Je:-ry enters and sits uncomfortably on the edge of the bed. Jerry How ya doin' there, Scotty? Scott Dad! What're they doing? Wuddya think they're doin ◄ with Mom? Jerry It's okay, Scotty. They're not gonna want to hurt her any. These men, they just want money, see. Scott What if ... what if sump~ goes wrong? Jerry
N: No, no, nothin's goin' wrong here. Granddad and I were--we're ma.kin' sure this gets handled right. Scott snorfles and sits up. Scott Dad, I really think we should call the cops. No! We thing! you ask thing! Jerry can't let anyone know about this We gotta play ball with these guys-­ Stan Grossman, he'll tell ya the same Scott Yeah, but-- Jerry We"re gonna get Mom back for ya, but we gotta play ball. It's a hard row ta hoe but ... Now if Lorraine calls, or Sylvia, you just say that Mom is in Florida with P~arl and Marty- - Scotty starts to weep again. Jerry stares silently down at his lap. Jerry That's the best we can do here ....
S: EXT CABIN
N: A lakeside cabin surrounded by white. A blue Cierra w:~h dea~e~ plates is pulling into the drive. Grimsrud climbs out of the passenger seat as Carl climbs out the other side. Grimsrud opens the back doo::- and, with ar. am. :::-: h-: : elbow, helps Jean out. She has her hands tiec behind he:. ba::k, and a black hood over her head. With a muffled cry she swings her elbow out. of Grimsrud's gras~ and lurches away across the snow of the front lawn. Grimsrud moves to retrieve her, but Carl, grinning, lays a hand on his shoulder to stop him. Carl Hold it. i They both look out at the front lawn, Grimsrud expressionless, Carl grinning. With muffled cries the hooded woman lurches across the unbroken snow, staggering this way and that, stumbling on the uneven terrain. She stops, stands still, her hooded head swaying. She lurches out again, in an arbitrary direction. She is going downhill, reels, staggers, falls face first in the snow, with muffled weeping. Carl Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Jesus! Grimsrud, still expressionless, breaks away from Carl's restraining hand to retrieve her.
C: BRAINERD POLICE HQ
D: We track behind Marge as she makes her way across the floor greeting various officers. She holds a small, half-full paper sack. Beyond her we see a smail glassed-in cubicle. Norm sits at the desk inside with a box lunch spread out in front of him. The following is lettered on the cubicle's glass door:
C: BRAINERD P.O. CHIEF GUNDERSON
D: Marge enters ands sits down behind the desk, detachir.?. her wa:kie from he~ utility belt to accomodate the seat. Marge Hiya hon. She slides the paper sack toward him. Nomi Brought ya some lunch. Margie. What're those, night crawlers? He looks inside. The bottom of the sack is full o! !at, crawling earthworms. iv..arge Yah. Norm Thanks hon. Marge You bet. Thanks for lunch. What do we got here, Arbie's? Norm Uh-huh. She starts eating. Marge ... How's the paintin' goin'? Norm Pretty good. Found out the Hauptmann's are entering a painting this year. Marge Aw hon, you're better'n them. Norm They're real good. Marge They're good, Norm, but you're the best. He leans over and kisses her. Norm Thanks hon. Marge Ahh, ya got Arbie's all o'er me. Lou enters. Lou Hiya Norm, how's the painting goin'? Norm Not too bad. Marge How we doin' on that vehicle? Lou Blue Cierra, dealer plates, none of the motels had one last night. But--the night
C: A TROPHY
D: before--two men checked into the Blue OX registering a Cierra and leavin' the tag space blank. Marge Geez, that's a good lead. The Blue Ox, that's that trucker's joint out there on I- 35? Lou Yah. Marge Geez. It is a silver trophy topped by a silver tractor-trailer; it is inscribed to THE BLUE ox MOTEL from the U.S.A. TRUCKER'S HOST
C: ~.SSOCIATION.
D: A finger taps at it. Voice Yeah, third year in a row we won for I-35 establishments. Woulda been five years, but four years ago they give it to the Brainerd Ramada. I suspect some money changed hands. We are tracking along the hote:s receptior. desk. Marge's Voice Geez, ya think? Voice Yeah, well I could be w~ong on tha:. Marge's Voice Any rate, those two fellas-- Voice Yah, I remember 'em, here night before last. ... The track has found the owner of the voice, a burly man restin~ his elbows on the desk . . And they had co~pany.
C: I BOWLING ALLEY
D: We are on a mezzanine overlooking the bowling alley . . Vending machines that dispense coffee, cigarettes, potato chips, etc. line the opposite wall. Marge is sitting at a small iron table next to the mezzanine railing with two young women. Marge Where you girls from? Hooker One Chaska . Hooker Two LeSeure. But I went to High School in White Bear Lake. Marge Okay, I want you to tell me what these fellas looked like. One Well ... the little guy, he was kinda funny­ looking. Marge In what way? One I dunno. Just funny looking. Marge Can you be any more specific? One I couldn't really say. He wasn't circumcised. Marge Was he funny looking apart from that? One Yah. Marge So you were having sex with the little fella, then. One f I r 'lr Uh-huh. Marge - Is there anything else you can tell me about him?
N: One No. Like I say he was funny looking. Moren most people even. Marge And what about the other fella? Two He was a little older. Looked liked the Marlboro man. Marge Yah? Two Yah. Maybe I'm sayin' that 'cause he smoked Marlboros. Marge Uh-huh. Two A subconscious type thing. Marge Yah, that can happen. Two Yah. One They said they were goin' to the Twin Cities. Marge Oh yah? Two Yah. One Yah. Is that useful to ya? Marge Oh you bet, yah. . . 1=: ◄ 9
T: FADE IN FROM WHITE
C: THE LAKE
D: A blanket of snow covers the frozen lake. The white is broken only by the odd ice-fish~ng hut, each with a car parked nearby. There are also a few isolated houses spread along the shore. EXT HAUS A lakeside cabin. A Ciera with dealer plates is parked in the drive. INT HAUS
C: TRACKING IN
D: on Jean Lundegaard, who sits tied in a chair with a black hood over her head. As we track in we hear inarticulate cursing, intermittent banging, and loud static.
C: TRACKING IN
D: on Gaear Grimsrud, who sits smoking a cigarette and expressionlessly watching.
C: TRACKING IN
D: on Carl Rolvaag, who stands over an old black-and-white television which plays nothing but snow, banging on its top, muttering to himself: Carl ... days. . be here for days with a-- DAMNIT!--a goddamn mute ... nothin' to do . . and the fucking--DAMNI7!. The "damnits" are accompanied by fist slams on the TV set . . . TV doesn't even ... plug me in, man . . Gimme a--DAMNIT!--signal. .. Plug me in to the ozone, baby ...
C: TRACKING IN CLOSER
D: ,-. on Jean in the black hood, as~~~ ~~rses and banging continue off. so Plug me into the ozone--FUCK! ... With one last bang we cut: BACY TO THE TELEVISION SET In extreme close-up an insect is lugging a worm. TV Voice-Over The bark beetle carries the worm to the nest. where it will feed its young for up to six weeks. A pull back from the screen reveals that we are in Marge's house. Marge and Norm are in the bedroom, in bed, watching television. ~rom the TV we hear the sound of insects chirring. After a long beat, silent except for the TV, Marge says, still looking at the set: Marge Well, I'm turnin' in, Norm. Also looking at the TV:
C: LATER
D: Norm Okay hon. The bedroom is dark. Norm is snoring. The phone rings. Marge gropes in the dark. Finally. Marge Hello? Voic~ Yah, is this Marge? Marge Yah? Voice Margie Olmstead? Marge .. Well, yah. Who's this? Voice This is Glen Yanagita. Ya know--Glen Yanagita. Remember me? Marge Glen Yanagita! Glen Yah! Marge sits up a little next to the still sleeping Norm. Marge Yah, yah, 'course I remember. How are ya? What time is it? Glen Oh, gee%. It .'s a quarter to eleven. I hope I dint wake you. Marge No, that's okay. Glen Yah, I'm down in the Twin Cities and I was just watching on TV about these shootings up in Brainerd, and I saw you on the news there. Marge Yah. Glen I thought, geez, is that Margie Olmstead? I can't believe it! Marg': Yah, that's me. Glen Well how the heck are Marge Okay, ya know, okay. Glen Yah?! Marge Yah--how are you doon? Glen Oh, pretty good. ya? Marge Heck, its been such a long time, Glen. It's great to hear from ya. Glen Yah ... Yah, yah. Geez Margie!
C: LOW SHOT THE ROAD
D: It is great grey northern dawn. The blue Cierra whooshes into frame, the only car on the road.
C: SHOTGUN HOUSE
D: Gaear Grimsrud opens the front door and enters. It is very early morning.
C: INSIDE THE HOUSE
D: We follow him as he goes to the living room. He stoops down nea~ a large Sony Trinitron TV and unplugs it. He puts both hands under the TV and straightens, grunting under its weight. A young woman is entering, knotting the belt of her bathrobe. Woman . Gaear? What're you doeen?! A three-year-old boy in dirty flannel pyjamas clutches at he~ le~ and looks up at Grimsrud. He is wordlessly trying to squeeze past, with the TV, the woman at the door . . . . Put that down! Where're my checks?! You're behind two checks, you sonofabitch! Put that do~! She starts batting at him. He tucks hi-s chin down and hunch~s his head away from the blows, walking down the hall. She follows, kicking at him . . . You fuckeen asshole! Put that down!
C: OUTSIDE THE HOUSE
D: Gaear bangs out the front door, :~e young woman still swatting a: ,.. 54 his back. She does not follow him out into the snow. As he awkwardly gropes for the car's back doorhandle, she screams at him from just inside the house: Woman You owe me money you fuckeen fuck! The child clutching at her leg is now weeping . . . . You selfish fuckeen asshole! What is Kyle supposed to watch? Your own flesh and blood! The child screams hysterically . . . . What is Kyle supposed to watch?! The child shrieks.
C: WADE GUSTAFSON OLDS
D: Jerry is on the sales floor showing a customer a vehicle. Jerry Yah, ya got yer, this is loaded her~. this has yer independent, uh, yer slipped differential, uh, yer rack-and-pinion steering, yer alarm and radar, and I can give it to ya with a heck of a sealant, this Trucoat stuff, it'll keep the salt off-- Customer Yah, I don't need no sealant though. Jerry Yah, you don't need that . Now were you thinking of financing here? You oughta be aware a this GMAC plan they have now, it's really super-- Another Salesman Jerry, ya got a call here. Jerry Yah, okay.
C: JERRY'S CUBICLE
D: As he sits in and picks up his phone . A beat. Jerry Jerry Lundegaard. Voice All right, Jerry, you got this phone to yourself? Jerry Well ... yah. Voice Know who this is? Jerry Well, yah I got an idea. How's that Cierra workin' out for ya? Voice Circumstances have chang~d, Jerry . Jerry Well, what do ya mean? Voice Things have changed. Circumstances, Jerry. Beyond the, uh ... acts of God, force majeure. Jerry What the--how's Jean? Carl . . Who's Jean? Jerry My wife! What the--ho~s-- Carl Oh Jean's okay. But therE'S three people up in Brainerd who are~t so okay, I'll tell ya that. Jerry Wha~ the heck're you talkin' about? Let's ju finish this deal up here-- Carl Blood has been shed, ~~~~y . ,,.. 56 Jerry sits dumbly. The voice solemly repeats: ... Blood has been shed. Jerry What the heck d 'ya .nean"' Carl Three people. In Brainerd. Jerry Oh geez . Carl That's right. And we need more money. Jerry The heck d'ya mean? What a you guys got yourself mixed up in? Carl We need more-- Jerry This was s'posed to be a no rough stuff type deal-- Carl DON'T .EVER INTERRUPT ME JERRY! JUST SHUT THE
C: FUCK UP!
D: Jerry Well, I ' m sorry, but I just ... I ... Carl Look. I'm not gonna debate you, Jerry. The price is now the whole amount. w~ want the entire eighty thousand. Jerry Oh for Christ sakes here-- Carl Blood has been shed. We've incurred risks, Jerry. Have the m~ney ready. I'm coming into town tomorrow. Jerry Now we had a deal here! A deal's a deal! Carl IS IT, JERRY?! You ask those three poor
N: Click. souls up in Brainerd if a deal's a deal! Go ahead, ask 'em! Jerry . . . The heck d' ya mean? Carl I'll see you tomorrow. Jerry slams down the phone and immediately it rings again. He angrily snatches it up. Jerry Yah! Voice Jerome Lundegaard? Jerry Yah! Voice This is Reilly Deifer.bach at GMAC. Sir, I have not yet received those vehicle IO's you promised me. Jerry Yah! I ... those are in the mail.' Voice Mr. Lundegaard, that very well -may be. I mus~ inform you however that absent the receipt of those numbers by tommorrow afternoon I will have to refer this matter to our legal department. Jerry Yah. Voice My patience is at an end. Jerry Yah. Voice Good day, sir. Jer-::y . Yah.
C: WIDE THE SHOWROOM
D: We are looking at Jerry's cubicle from across the showroom. With the noise muted we watch him slam down the receiver, rise to his feet, fling the phone to the floor, raise his desk blotter high over his head with pens and pencils rolling off it, and slam it onto his desktop. He stands for a moment, hands on his hips, glaring. He then stoops and picks up the phone, places it back on the desktop, starts picking up the pens and pencils.
C: TRACK
D: On steam-table bins of food, each identified with a pla~Je: BEEF STROGANOFF, SWEDISH MEATBALLS, BROILED TORSK, CHICKEN FLORENTINE.
C: COMPLEMENTARY TRACK
D: On a tray being pushed along a buffet line. It is piled higr. with many foods.
C: MARGE AT A TABLE
D: Lost in thought, her salad plate piled high with a veritatl': Annapurna of greens, meats and hct vegetab:es. A hip with a hissing walkie enters frame and ~~rge looks~~­ Gary How ya doin', Margie. Ho~s the fricasee? Marg1: Pretty darn good, ya wa~t some? Gary No, I gotta--where's Norn.? Marg'= He went ice-fishing up at M:lle Lacs. Whatcha got there? He hands her a flimsy. Gary
N: The numbers yasked for, calls made from the lobby pay phone at the Blue Ox. Two to Minneapolis that night. She looks at the paper. Marge Mn. Gary First one's a trucking company, second one's a private residence. Marge .. Yah, okay, I think I'll drive down there. Gary Oh yah? Marge Yah, why not. Haven't been to the Twin Cities a while . (.__ KITCHEN OF LUNDEGAARD HOUSE Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit around the kitchen table. !: is night. The scene is harshly toplit by a hanging fixture. Or. the table are the remains of coffee and a cinammon filbert ring. Wade Damnit! I wanna be part a this thing! Jerry No, Wade! They were real clear! They saia they'd call tomorrow, with instruc~io~s, and it's gotta be delivered by me alone! Wade It's my money, 1..:1.l deliver it--what do they care? Stan Wade's got a poin: the~e. I'll handle the call if you want, Jerry . Jerry No no, see--they, no. seP they only deal with me. Ya feel this, thi~ nervousness on the phone there, they're very--these guys're dangerous-- Wade All the more reason! I don't want you--with all due respect, Jerry--l don't wan~ you mucking this up. Jerry The heck d'ya mean?! Wade They want my money, they can deal with me. Otherwise I'm goin' to a professional. He points at a briefcase . . . . There's a million dollars here! Jerry No, see-- Wade Look Jerry, you're not sellin" me a damn car. It's my show here. That's that. Stan It's the way we prefe= to handle it, Je~ry.
C: THE DOWNTOWN RADISSON
D: ~~rge is at the reception desk. Marge: Hi, how ya doin'? Clerk Real good, how're you today ma'am? Marge: Real good. I'm Mrs. G.;:1d-:rson, I have a reservation. Typing into a computer console : Clerk You sure do , Marg-: Is there a phone down here ya think?
C: LOBBY CORNER
D: Marge is on a public phone. Marge . Detective Sibert? Yah, this is Marge Gunderson from up Brainerd, we spoke-- ... Yah. I just wanted to let you know I'm in town now ... Yah, thanks a bunch, you uh, you were gonna run a check for me on Mr. Proudfoot ... Yah ... Yah ... No, I can find that ... Well thanks a bunch. Say, d'you happen to know a good place for lunch in the downtown area? ... Yah, the Radisson . . . Oh yah? Is it reasonable?
C: A GREEN FREEWAY SIGN
D: Pointing to the exit 'for the MINNEAPOLIS INTERNATIONAL AIRPOR7. A tilt down reveals Carl behind the wheel of the Ciera takin~ the turn. Ar. airport sign reads LONG TERM PARKING Ca=l takes a ticket and drives up the parking ramp.
C: THE ROOFTOP
D: As Carl drives up and stops. There are only a few sno~-ccve~e= cars on the windswept rooftop. Carl gets out of his car with a screwdriver, quickly s::a~s tr-.~ lot, then kneels down in the snow at. the back o: a parked ca:: a:-.:: starts unscrewing the license plate.
C: THE EXIT BOOTH
D: As Carl pulls up and hands the attendant his ticket. Attendant That's four dollars. Carl No, I just came in. here. I decided not to park Attendent What do you mean you decided not to park here? Carl I decided not to--Im uh, I'm not taking the trip as it turns out. Attendent I'm sorry, sir, I have to charge you the four dollars. Carl I just pulled in here. I just fucking pulled in here! Attendant Sir, there's a minimUIT', charge of four dollars. Long-term parking charges by the day. A car behind beeps. Carl glances back, starts digging for money. Carl I guess you think, ya know, you're an authority figure. With that stupid fucking uniform. Huh buddy? The attendant. doesn't say anything . . . . King Clip-On Tie here. Big fucking man. He is peeling off one dollar bills . . . . You know, these are the limits of~ life, man. Ruler of your little fucking gat~ here. There's your four dolla~s. You pathetic piece of shit.
C: GARAGE AREA
D: Jerry is staring up, mouth agap~. at the underside of a car on?. hydraulic lift. Bewildered, he looks about, then asks a mecha~:: ,-. passing by, his voice raised over the din of the shop: l .
N: Jerry ... Where's Shep? The mechanic points. Mechanic Talkin' to a cop. Jerry looks. Jerry ... Cop? Marge and Shep face each other at the other end of the floor in a grimey and cluttered glassed-in cubicle. Mechanic Said she was a policewoman. Marge and Shep silently talk. Jerry stares, swallows.
C: INSIDE THE CUBICLE
D: fo'..arge --Wednesday nigh~? Shep is shaking his head. Shep Nope. Marge Well you do reside there at 1425 Fremont Terra ce'? Shep Yep. Marge Anyone else residing ttere? Shep Nope. Marge Well Mr. Proudfoot, this call came in past three in the morning, :t's just hard for me to believe you can't ~~me~ber anyone calling.
N: Shep says nothing . . . . Now I know you've had some problems, struggling with the narcotics, some other entanglements, currently on parole-- Shep So? Marge Well associating with criminals, if you're the one they talked to, that right there would be a violation of your parole and would end you up back in Stillwater. Shep Uh-huh. Marge Now, l saw some rough stuff on your priors, but nothing in the nature of a homicide ... Shep stares at her . . . I~ you don't want to be an accessory to something like that. Shep Nope. Marge So you think you might remerr~er who those folks were who called ya?
C: JERRY'S OFFICE
D: Jerry is worriedly pacing behind his desk. At a noise he le~~~ abruptly up. Marge has stuck her head in his door. Marge Mr. Lundegaard? Huh? Yah? Jerry (tensely! Marg~ I wonder if I could take just a minute of your time here-- Jerry What ... What is it all about? Marge Huh? Do you mind if I sit down--I'm carrying quite a load here. Marge plops down in the chair opposite him . . You're the owner here, Mr. Lundegaard? Jerry Naw, I ... Executive Sales Manager. Marge Well~ can help me, my name's Marge Gunderson-- Jerry My father-in-law, he's the owner. Uh-huh. Brainerd was just vehicles couple a Cierra? Marge Well I'm a police cfficer from up investigating some malfeasance and I wondering if you"ve had any new stolen off the lot in the past weeks--specifically a blue Cutlass Jerry stares at her, his mouth open. M:'. Lundegaard? Jerry Brainerd? Yah. Yah. Blue Ox. Marge Home a Paul Bunyar. and Babe The Jerry ... Babe The Blue Ox? Marge Yah, ya know we've got the big statue there. So you haven't had any v~hicles go missing then? Jerry No. No ma ' am. Marge Okey-dokey, thanks a bunch, I'll let you get back to your paperwork then. As Marge rises Jerry locks blankly down at the papers on the desk in front of him. Jerry Yah, okay. He looks up at Marge's retreating back. He looks back down at the papers. He looks over at the phone. He picks up the phone and dials four digits.
C: HOTEL BAR
D: Jerry Yah, gimme Shep ... The heck d"ya mean? . Well where'd he go?--it's only-- No, I don't n~ed a mechanic--oh, geez-­ I gotta talk to a friend of his, so uh ... have him, uh . .. oh geez ... Marge is entering. She looks around the bar, which is a rathe~ characterless lowlit meeting place for business types. Voice Marge?! It is a bald paunching man of about Marge's age, rising fro~ a semicircular booth halfway back. His features are broad, friendly, Asian-American. Glen! He approaches somewhat carefully., a~ if or. his second dr:ink . They hug and head back towards the booth. Glen Geez! You look great! Marge Yah--easy there--you do too! I'm expecting, ya know. I see that! Glen That's great! A waitress meets them at the table. What can I get ya? Marge J~st a Diet Coke. Again she glances about. This is a nice place. Glen Yah, ya know it's the Radisson so it's pretty good. Marge You're livin' in Edina then? Glen Oh yah, couple years now. It's Prairie--that school distric~. Gunderson then! So ya went and son-of-a-Gunderson! Marge Oh yah, a long time ago. Glen actually Eden Sc Chic~ married Norm
N: Great. What brings ya--are ya down here on that homicide--if youre alloweo, ya -know, to discuss that? Marge Oh yah, but there's not a heckuva let tc discuss. What about you, Glen? Are you married--you have kids? Glen Well yah, I~ married, ! was married to-­ you mind if I sit over here? He is sliding out of his side of the booth and easing in nex~ to Marge. I was married to Janet Cooksey-­ Marge No, I--Glen--whyncha s1: over there, I'd prefer that. Glen Huh? Oh, okay, I'm sorry. Marge No, just so I can see ya, ya know. Don't have to turn my neck. Glen Oh sure, I unnerstand, I didn't mean to-- Marge No no, that's fine. Glen Yah, sorry, so I was married to Janet Cooksey--ya remember Janet? She was a year behind us. Marge I think I remember Janet, yah. She was--yah. So things didn't work out, huh? Glen seems slightly distracted. Glen And then I., and then I been workin' for Honeywell for a few years now. Marge Well they,re a good outfit. Glen Yah, if you're an engir.eer, yah, you could de a lot worse. Of course it's not, uh, it's nothin' like~ achieveme:1t. r.-~rge It sounds like you're doir.' really supe~. Glen Yah, well I, uh ... it's not that it didr.'t work out--Janet passed away. she, uh ... Marge I'm sorry. Glen's composure is slipping. Glen Yah, I, uh ... it was a long, it tough, uh ... it was :~~ke~ia. . . It was, uh. . . was a She fought. Marge I'm sorry, Glen. Glen Oh, ya know, that's, uh--what can ya say ... He holds up his drink. Better times, huh? Marge clinks it. Marge Better times. Glen It was so . .. 1 been so ... and then I saw you on TV, and I remembered, ya know .. . I always liked you ... Marge Well I always liked you, Glen. Glen I always liked ya so much. Marge It's okay, Glen--should we get together another time ya think? Glen No--I'm sorry! It's just--! been so lonely-­ th~n I saw you, and. He is weeping. I"m sorry ... I shouldn't a done this . . . I thought we'd have a really terrific time, and now I"ve .. Marg~ It's okay. . . Glen You were such a super lady ... and then I .. . ; been so lonely . . Marge It's okay, Glen .. .
C: C.
D: C ..
C: CARLTON CELEBRITY ROOM
D: Carl Rolvaag is sitting at a small table with a tarty-looking blonde who is almost spilling out of a low-cut gown. Each is holding a drink. Carl Just in town on business. Just in and out. Ha-ha! A little of the old in-and-out! Woman Wuddya do? Carl looks around.
C: THEIR POV
D: Carl Have ya been to the Celebrity Room before? With other, uh, clients? Woman I don't think so. It's nice. Carl Yeah, well it depends on the artist. Yo~ know, Mac Davis, ya got no complaints. Waiter! The backs of many many people, sitting at tables between Carl and the very distant stage, where Mac Davis, very small, sits on a spotlit stool and plays. The accoustics are poor.
C: CARL
D: Still signaling. Carl Waiter! He holds up and points to his glass . . . . So, uh, how long you been with the escort service? Woman I don't know. Few mu~~€ Carl Ya find the work interesting, do ya? Woman ... What're you talking about?
C: DIRTY BEDROOM
D: Carl is humping the escort. We hear the door burst open. The escort is grabbed and flung out of the bed. Carl Shep! What the hell are you doing! I'm banging that girl! Shep! Jesus Ch-- Shep slaps him, hard, forehand, backhand. Shep Fuck out of my house! He hauls him up-- Carl Shep! Don"t you dare fucking hit me, mar.! Don't you- - --punches him, and flings him away. Ca~l hits a sofa and we see his bare legs disappea~ as ~e flip: back over it. Shep enters fram~ to circle the sofa and kick at Carl behind it . Shep Fuck outa here. Put me back in Stillwater. Little fucking shit. There is a knock at the door. Voice Hey! Come on in there! Shep strides to the door, flings it open. A black man in boxer shorts stands in the doorway. Man cmon, brother, it's late--Unghh! Shep hits him twice, then grabs both of his ears and starts banging his head against the wall. The hooker runs by clutching her clothes and Shep kicks her in the ass as she passes. He spins and goes back into the apartment. Carl is hopping desperately into his pants. Carl Stay away from me man! Hey! Smoke a fuckin' peace pipe , man! Don't you dare fuckin-­ Unghh!-- After hitting him several times Shep yanks Carl's belt out of his dangling pants and strangles him with it from behind, lifting Carl's feet off the floor. Carl gurgles. Shep knees Carl repeatedly from behind as Carl purples, then dumps him onto the floor and starts whipping him with the buckle-e~d of the belt .
C: PHONE BOOTH
D: !""' Inside a Red Lobster restaurant. Carl listens to the phone ring " at the other end. His face is deeply bruised and cut . l . Finally, through the phone: Voice . Yah? Carl All right Jerry, I'm through fucking around. You got the fucking money?
C: JERRY'S KITCHEN
D: He is at the kitchen phone; through the door to the dining roo~ we see Wade listening on an extension. Jerry Yah, I got the money, but uh-- Carl Don't you fucking but me Jerry. I want you with this money on the Dayton-Raddison parking ramp, top level, thirty minutes Jerry and we'll wrap this up. Jerry Yah okay, but uh-- Carl You're there in thirty minutes or I find you, Jerry, and I shoot you, and I shoot your fucking wife, and I shoot all your little fucking children, and I shoot 'em all in the back of their little fucking heads. Got it? Jerry . Yah, well you stay away from Scotty now-- Carl
C: GOT IT?!
D: Jerry Okay, real good then. The line goes dead. A door slams offscreen and Jerry looks up. EXT LUNDGAARDHAUS Wade, briefcase in . hand, gets in his Cadillac, slams the door a:i::! peels out into traffic. INT CAR Wade's jaw works angrily as he glares out at traffic. He mum!:les to himself as he drives: Wade Okay ... here's your damn money, no~ where~ my daughter? ... Goddamn punk ... where's my damn daughter .. . He pulls out a gun, cracks the barrel, peers in . . . . You little punk.
C: JERRY'S HOUSE
D: Jerry sits in the foyer, trying to pull on a pair of galoshes. Voice from upstairs . Dad?
C: C.
D: Jerry It's okay, Scotty. Voice Where're you going? Jerry Be back in a minute. If Stan calls you just tell him I went to Embers. Oh geez-- Thunk!--his first boot goes on.
C: RADISSON
D: Marge sits on the bed in her hotel room, shoes off, massaging her feet. The phone is pressed to her ear and, through it, we hear ringing. Voice . . . Hello? Marge Norm?
C: MILLE LACS LAKE
D: It is late evening, blowing sn ow. A leisurely pan across the bleak gray expanse finds a little hut in the middle of the froze:-i lake with a pickup truck parked next to it. Marge's voice They bitin'? INT HUT Norm has a cellular phone to his ear. His feet are stretche~ o~: to an electric heater. The interior is bathed in soft orang~ light. Norm Yeah, okay. How's the hotel? Marge Oh pretty good. They bitin'? Norm Yeah, couple a muskies . No pike yet. How d'you feel? Marge Oh, fine. Norm Not on your fee-.; too much? Marge No no. Norm You shouldn't be on your feet too much, you got weight you're not used to. How's the food down there? Marge Had dinner at a place Table. Buffet style. good. Norm Was it reasonable? Marge called The King's It was pretty darn Yah, not too bad. So's it nice up there? Norm Yah it's good . No pike yet, but it's good.
C: DAYTON'S RADDISON RAMP
D: The top, open, level. Snow blows. A car sits idling. Another car pulls out of the ramp onto the level. It creeps cv-::­ to the parked car and stops. It continues to idle as the dc~:­ opens and Wade steps out, carrying the briefcase. The door of the other car bangs open and Carl bounces o~:. hopping up and down. Carl Who the fuck are you? Who the fuck are you?! Wade I got your damn money. yo~ little punk. Now where's my daughter? :-- 76 He pulls Carl I am through fucking around! Drop that fucking briefcase! Wade Where's my daughter? Carl Fuck you, man! Where's Jerry? I gave simple fucking instructions-- wade Where's my damn daughter? No Jean, no money! Carl Drop that fucking money! Wade No Jean, no money! Carl Is this a fucking joke here? out a gun and fires into Is this a fucking joke? Wade Unghh . .. oh geez ... Wade's gut . He is on the pavement, clutching at his gut. Snow swirls . Carl You fucking imbeciles! He bends down next to Wade to pick up the briefcase. Wade Oh for Christ ... oh geez. Wade brings out his gun and fires at Carl's head, close by. Carl Oh! Carl stumbles and falls back. and then stands up again. His ja~ is gouting blood . Owwmm. !f/11"" One hand pressed to his jaw, he fires down at Wade, several times. Blood streams through the hand pressed to his jaw . ,,- 77 . . . M1a1u1111phnck ! He f nkem shop me . . . He pockets the gun, picks up the briefcase one-handed, flings it into his car, gets in, peels out.
C: THE DOWN RAMP
D: Carl screams down the ramp. He takes a corner at high speed then swerves, just missing Jerry in his Olds on his way to the top. INT JERRY'S CAR Jerry recovers from the near miss and continues up. Jerry Oh geez!
C: EXIT BOOTH
D: As Carl squeels to a halt at the gate, still pressing his hand to his bleeding jaw.
C: RAMP ROOF
D: Carl Ophhem ma fuchem gaphe! Attendant May I have your ticket please? As Jerry pulls to a halt next to Wade's idling Cadillac. He ge:s outand walks slowly to where Wade's body lies prostrate in tr.e swirling snow. Jerry Oh! Oh geeeez! He looks around desperately at the deserted roof ramp, the lights of the city twinkling in the distance. He bends down, picks Wade up by the armpits and drags him over to the back of the Cadilla:. He drops Wade's body, walks to the driver's side of the car, pulls the keys and walks back to pop the trunk. He wres~les Wade's body into the trunk, slams it shut and ~alks back to the scene of the shooting. ,,,. CLOSE ON JERRY' S FEET C .. Kicking the snow with his galoshed feet, trying to hide the fresh blood stains.
C: THE EXIT BOOTH
D: As Jerry approaches in the Cadillac.
C: JERRY'S POV
D: The wooden gate barring the exit has been broken away. The booth is empty.
C: BACK TO JERRY
D: As he eases toward the street, looking over at the booth as he passes.
C: JERRY'S POV
D: Inside the booth we see the awkwardly angled leg of a prostratE body. EXT JERRY'S HOUSE The car pulls into the driveway.
C: FOYER
D: Jerry enters and sits on the foyer chair to tak~ off his galoshes. Scott's Voice . Dad? Jerry Yah. Scott's Voice Stan Grossman called. Jerry Yah, okay. Scott's Voice Twice. Okay. Yah. Jerry Scott's Voice Is everything okay? Jerry Thoonk--the first boot comes off.
C: CARL'S CAR
D: Scott's Voice Are you calling Stan? Jerry Well ... I'm goin' ta bed now. Carl mumbles as he drives, underlit by the dim dash lights, with one hand now holding a piece of rag to his shredded jaw.
C: THE ROAD
D: Carl ... Fnnkn ashlzh. Low, looking down the road. violently swirling the snow. FADE OUT
C: HOLD IN BLACK
D: HARD CUT TO: . Fnk. Carl's car roars into frame, Its red tail lights fishtail a~ay .
C: BRIGHT--LOOKING THROUGH A WINDSHIELD
D: It is a starkly sunny day. We are cruising down a street o: humble look-alike houses. We pan right as we draw towards one house in particular, ir. t~~ driveway of which a man in a hooded parka shovels snow. He notices the approaching car and gives a brief wave.
C: REVERSE
D: Gary, the Brainerd police officer. is driving. He gives a finger-to-the-forehead salute and begins to pull over.
C: OUTSIDE
D: As Gary slams his door shut and the other man plants his shovel in the snow. Man How ya doon. Gary Mr. Mohra? Man Yah. Gary Officer Olson. Man Yah, right-o. The two men, both in snorkel-hooded parkas, talk in the driveway without shaking hands and without standing particularly close. They stand stiffly with their arms down at their sides and vaporized breath streaming out of their hoods. Each has an awkward leaning-away posture, head drawn slightly back and chir. tucked in, to keep the face from protruding into the cold . . . . So I'm tendin' bar there at Ecklund & Swedlin's last Tuesday and this little guy"s drinkin' and he says So where can a guy find some action--I'm goin" crazy out there at the lake. And I says What kinda action and he says Woman action, what do I look like. And I says Well what do 1 look like, I don't arrange that kinda thing, and he says I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake and I say~ well this ain't that kinda place. Gary Uh-huh. Man So he says Sol get it so you think I'm some kinda jerk for askin', only he doesr.'t use the word jerk. Gary I unnerstand.
N: Man And then he calls~ a jerk and says tLe last guy who thought~ was a jerk is dead now. So I don't say nothin' and he says What do ya think about -'.hll,? So I says, well that don't sound like too good a deal for him then. Gary Ya got that right. Man And he says, Yah, that guy's dead and I don't mean a old age. And then he says, Geez, I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake. Gary White Bear Lake? Man Well Ecklund & Swedlin's, that's closer ta Moose Lake, so I made .tha,t assumption. Gary Oh sure. Man So ya know he's drinkin' so I don't think a whole great deal of it but Mrs. Mohra heard about the homicides out here and she thought I should call it in so I called it in. End a story. , Gary What'd this guy look like anyways? Man Oh he was a little guy, kinda funny-lookin'. Gary Uh-huh--in what way? Man Just a general way. Gary Okay, well thanks a bunch Mr. Mohra. You're right, it's probably nothin' but thanks for callin' her in. Man Oh sure. They say she's gonna turn cold tomorrow. Gary Ya.h, got a front movin' in. Man Ya got that right.
C: CLOSE ON CARL ROLVAAG
D: In his car, now parked, staring down at something next to him in the front seat. One hand still holds the rag pressed to his mangled jaw. He is motionless.
C: HIS POV
D: His other hand holds open the briefcase. It has money inside--a lot of money.
C: BACK TO CARL
D: He takes out one of the bank-wrapped wads, looks at it. Carl . Mmmnphh. He starts pawing through the money in the breifcase, figuring the amount. . .. Jeshush Shrist ... Jeshush fuchem Shrist! Excited, he counts out a bundle of bills and tosses it onto the back the car seat. He tries to take the rag away from his chin but the layer pressed against his face sticks, its loose weave bound to his skin by clotted blood. He pulls very gently and winces as blood starts to flow again. He carefully tears the rag in half so that only a bit of it is left adhering to his jaw. EXT THE CAR l . It is pulled over to the side of an untraveled road. The car door opens and Carl emerges with the briefcase. He slogs through the snow, down a gulley and up the embankment to a barbed-wire fence. He kneels at one of the fence posts and frantically digs into the snow with his bare hands, throws in the briefcase and covers it back up. He stands up, trying to beat the circulation back into his red, frozen hands, and looks to the right. A regular line of identical fenceposts stretches away against unblemished white. He looks to the left. A regular line of identical fencepost& stretches away against unblemished white. He looks at the fencepost in front of him. Carl Mnmphh .. . He looks about the snowy vastness for a marker. Finding none, he kicks the fencepost a couple of times, failing to scar or tilt it, then hurriedly plants a couple of sticks up against the post. He bends down, scoops up a handful of snow, presses it against his wounded jaw, and lopes back to the idling car.
C: HOTEL ROOM
D: Marge has a packed overnight bag sitting on the unmade bed; she is already wearing her parka, ready to leave, but is on the phone. Marge Ya think he's all right? I saw him last night and he's-- Voice What'd he say? Marge Well it was nothin' specific he said, it just seemed like it all hit him really hard, his wife dyin'--
N: Voice His wife? Marge Janet. Voice No. Marge Janet Cooksey? Voice No. No. No. They werent--he, uh, he was bothering Janet for about, oh for a good year. Really pestering her, wouldn't leave her alone. Marge So ... they didn't. Voice No. No. They never married. Glen's had psychiatric problems. Marge Oh. Oh my. Voice Yah, he--he's been struggling. He's living with his parents now. Marge Oh. Geez. Voice Yah, Janet's fine. You should call her. Marge Geez, I-- There is an electronic bleating sound . . . . Geez--hold, hold on Valerie, my other line's ringin 1 She punches two buttons. Yah? Voice Chief Gunderson?
C: HALLWAY
D: A handheld camera follows behind Marge as she walks down a brightly toplit modern institutional hallway. Marge is still wearing her outdoorswear; the nylon of shell of her parka goes SHWEBK-SHWEEK-SHWEEK as she walks. We follow Marge to a door marked HOMICIDE, and in. The large room has a counter behind which people work at randomly placed desks. Marge asks an officer at the counter: Marge Is Detective Sibert here? Perched on a nearby desk is a woman sharing a loud laugh with the officer seated behind it. She reacts upon hearing Marge and steps up to the counter, still chuckling.
C: FOLLOWING
D: Woman Chief Gunderson? Marge Yah--Detective Sibert? Woman Yah. Why dontcha come over ta my desk then. We are following Detective Sibert through the room as she talks casually back over her shoulder, without ever really looking back. Detective Sibert Well, Shep Proudfoot is now wanted for assault and parole violation. He clobbered a neighbor of his last night and another person who could be one of your perps, and he's at large. Cup a. coffee? Marge Oh no thanks, I'm good. So somethin's goin' on. Detective Sibert Yah. I called his employer, this Wade She rises. Gustafson, ta see if he'd missed any work last week but I haven't heard back fran him yet. Marge I talked to a salesman over there yesterday-­ Lemme run over and talk to him again. Detective Sibert Yah, couldn't hurt. Marge And then I guess I'll head back up to Brainerd. I just can't thank you enough, Detective Sibert, this cooperation has been outstanding. Detective Sibert Ah well we haven't had to run around like you. Whenre you due? Marge End a April. Detective Sibert Any others? Marge This'll be our first. We've been waiting a long time. Detective Sibert That's wonderful. Mn-mm. That's terrific. Marge Oh yah, we're just, we're just on pins and needles. You have children? Detective Sibert leans forward to turn two framed photographs to face Marge. Detective Sibert I thought you'd never ask. The older one is Janet, she's nine, and the younger one is Morgan. Marge Oh now he's adorable. Detective Sibert
C: I
D: He's three now. Course, not in that picture. Marge Oh, he's adorable. Detective Sibert Yah, he-- Marge Where'd you get him that parka?
C: JERRY LUNDEGAARD'S OFFICE
D: Jerry is at his desk using a blunt pencil to enter numbers onto a form; beneath the form is a piece of carbon paper and beneath that another form copy which he periodically checks. The carbon­ copy form shows thick, smudgy, rather illegible entries. Jerry hums nervously. Glass rattles as someone taps at his door. Jerry looks up and freezes, mouth hanging open, brow knit with worry. Marge is sticking her head in the door. Marge Mr. Lundegaard? Sorry to bother you again. Can I come in? She starts to enter. Jerry Yah, no, I'm kinda--I'm kinda busy-- Marge I unnerstand, I'll keep it real short then. Do you mind if I sit down--I'm carrying a bit of a load here. Jerry No, I-- But she is already sitting into the chair opposite, with a sigh of relieved weight. Marge Yah, it's this vehicle I asked you about yesterday. I was just wondering-- Jerry Yah, like I told ya, we havent had any vehicles go missing. Marge Okay, are you sure, 'cause the reason we're concerned is that an employee here I talked to yesterday is now a fugitive from justice, and we know the perpetrators were driving a car with dealer plates. So it'd be quite a coincidence if this employee and this car weren't connected here. Jerry Yah, I see. Marge So are you sure that car isn't--have you done any kinda inventory recently? Jerry It's not from our lot, ma'am. Marge But do you know for sure it's not from your lot without-- Jerry Well I would know. I'm the Executive Sales Manager. Marge Yah, but-- Jerry We run a pretty tight ship here. Marge I know, but--well how do you establish that, sir? Are the cars, uh, counted daily, or what kind of-- Jerry Ma'am, I answered your question. There is a silent beat. Marge I'm sorry, sir? Jerry Ma'am, I answered your question. I answered
N: the darn--I'm cooperating, here, and I ... Marge Sir, you have no call to get snippy with me. I'm just doin' my job here. Jeny I'm not, uh, I'm not arguin' here. I'm cooperating ... There's no, uh--we're doin' all we can. . . He trails off into silence. Marge Sir, could I talk to Mr. Gustafson? Jerry stares at her. Mr. Lundegaard? Jerry explodes: Jerry Well heck, if you wanna, if you wanna play games here! I'm workin' with ya on this thing, but I ... He is getting angrily to his feet. Sir? Okay, I'll do a damned lot count! Marge Right now? Jerry Sure right now! You're darned tootin' ! He is yanking his parka from a hook behind the opened door and grabbing a pair of galoshes . . . . If it's so damned important to ya! Marge I m sorry, sir, I- - As he leaves, the parka over one arm, the galoshes pinched in his h~: ' Jerry Aw, what the Christ! Marge l . Could I use your phone, sir? Jerry is already gone. Marge turns back to the desk, reaches the phone over and punches numbers into it. She fiddles with a pencil as she waits for the connection. Marge Detective Sibert, please . .. With the eraser end of the pencil she plays with the clipboard on the desk. She twirls it around, drags it over to her side of the desk. . .. Detective Sibert? Yah, it's Marge again ... Yah, real good. Well I'm in Jerry Lundegaard's office, and there's somethin' goin' on here. Maybe you could run a CH on him. The form on the clipboard is from the General Motors Finance Corporation . . I'm pretty sure my car is from his lot here, and he seems--oh for Pete's sake. For Pete's sake. Her voice has gone suddenly flat as she stares off.
C: HER POV
D: Jerry, wearing dark glasses, parka hood pulled up, is easing his car around the near corner of the showroom.
C: MARGE
D: She rises slowly to her feet with the phone still pressed to her ear. Marge ... He's fleein' the interview. He's fleein' the interview. Oh for Pete's sake, he's .. . No, this fella Lundegaard ... Jerry pulls up to the mouth of the lot and makes a left turn into traffic . . . . What the beck--I can't--I can't see his darn license. Well it' prob'ly bis own car- - he's drivin' a royal blue late-model Fifth Avenue and he's just turning, uh, west now en Wayzata Boulevard ... That's two A's ... No, in Lundegaard ... Yah, it looks like this thing goes higher than we thought ... Yah ... Wanted for questioning in connection with a triple homicide ... Yah, he was real darn agitated ... Oh for Pete's sake . .. GAEAR GRI?t$RUD He sits eating a Swanson's TV dinner from a little TV tray he has set up in front of an easy chair. He watches TV--the Sony Trinitron, which sits on the cart where the old black-and-white used to sit. Rabbit ears have been placed on the new set but its image--it might be a game show--is still heavily ghosting and diffused by snow. The audio crackles with interference as well. Despite the impenetrability of the image, it holds Grimsrud's canplete attention. With the sound of the front door opening Grimsrud looks up. Carl ,,-. is entering, his face still suppurating and raw. He reacts to Grimsrud's wordless look with a grotesque laugh: Carl You should she zhe uzher guy! He glances around . . . . The fuck happen a her? Jean sits slumped in a straightbacked chair facing the wall. Her hooded head, resting on her chest, is motionless. There is blood on the facing wall. Grimsrud She started shrieking, you know,. Carl Jezhush. He shakes his head . . Well I gotta muddy. He is plunking down eight bank-wrapped bundles on the table . . . . All of it. All eighty gran. Forty for I you. . . He makes one pile, pockets the rest . . . . Forty for me. Sho thishuzh it. Adiosh. He slaps some keys down on the table . . . . You cnave my truck. I'm takin' a Shierra. Grimsrud We split that. Carl looks at him. Carl HOW THE FUCK DO WE SHPLITTA FUCKIN' CAR?! Ya dummy! Widda fuckin chainshaw?! Grimsrud looks dourly up at him. There is a beat. Finally: Grimsrud One of us pays the other for half. . Carl HOLD ON! NO FUCKIN' WAY! YOU FUCKIN' NOTISH ISH? I GOT FUCKIN' SHOT! I GOT FUCKIN' SHOT INNA FAISH! I WENT'N GOTl'A FUCKIN' M)NEY! I GET SHQ:I FUCJCIN' PICKIN' IT UPI I BEEN UP FOR THIRTY-SHIKSH FUCKIN' HOURZH, I'M TAJCIN' THAT FUCK IN' CAR I THAT FUCKER IZH MINE! . Carl waits for an argument, but only gets the steady sour look. Carl pulls out a gun. YOU FUCKIN' ASH-HOLE! I LISHEN A YOUR BULLSHIT FOR A WHOLE FUCKIN' WEEK! A beat. Carl returns Grimsrud's stare . . Are we shquare? Grimsrud says nothing . . ARE WE SHQUARE? A beat. ,,... Disgusted, Carl pockets the gun and heads for the door.
N: l _
C: OUTSIDE
D: ... Fuckin' ash-hole. And if you shee your friend Shep Proudpfut tell him I'm gonna NAIL hizh fuckin' ash. We are pulling Carl as be walks toward the car. Behind him we see the cabin door opening. Carl turns, reacting to the sound. Grimsrud is bounding out wearing mittens and a red hunter's cap, but no overcoat. He is holding an axe. Carl fumbles in his pocket for his gun. Grimsrud swings overhand, burying the axe where Carl's shoulder meets his neck.
C: ~GE
D: In her cruiser, on her two-way. Through it we bear Lou's voice; heavily filtered: Voice His wife. This guy says she was kidnapped last Wednesday. Marge The day of our homicides. Voice Yah. Marge is peering to one side as she drives, looking through the bare trees that border the road on a declivity that runs down to a large frozen lake. Marge And this guy is ... Voice Lundegaard's father-in-law's accountant. Marge Gustafson's accountant. Voice Yah. Marge l_ Where's Gustafson? Voice --looking. Marge Sorry--didn't copy. Voice Still missing. We're looking. Marge Copy. And Lundegaard too. Voice Yah. Where are ya, Margie? We hear, distant but growing louder, harsh engine noise, as of a chainsaw or lawnmower.
E: Crackle
C: HER POV
D: Marge Oh, I'm almost back--I figured ~d drive around Moose Lake on the way. Voice Oh. Gary's loudmouth. Marge Yah, the loudmouth, who knows. So they put it out, Lundegaard and Gustafson? Voice Yah, it's over the wire, it's everywhere, they'll find em. Marge Copy. Voice We've got a-- Marge There's the cart There's the car! Slowing as we approach a short driveway leading down to a cabin. Parked in front is the dark blue cutlass Cierra. Voice Fifth Avenue?
N: Marge My earl My earl Blue Cierra! Voice Don't go in! Wait for back-up! Marge is straJ.ning to look. The powertool noise is louder here but still muffled, its source not visible. Chief Gunderson? Marge Copy. Yah, send me back-up! Voice Yes ma'am. Are we the closest PD? Marge Yah, Menominie only has Chief Perpich and he takes February off to go to Boundary Waters.
S: EXT THE ROAD
N: Marge pulls her prowler over some distance past the cabin. She gets out, zips up her khaki parka and pulls up its fur-lined hood. For a moment she stands listening to _the muffled roar of the powertool. Then, with one curved arm half pressing against, half supporting her belly, she takes slow gingerly steps down the slope, through the deep snow, through the trees, angling towards the cabin and the source of the powertool roar.
C: ON MARGE
D: She slogs from tree to tree, letting each one support her downhill-leaning weight for a moment of rest before slogging on to the next. The roar ia growing louder. Marge stands panting by one tree, her breath vaporising out of her snorkel hood. She squints down toward the cabin.
C: HER POV
D: We can see past the side of the cabin into its back lot. A tall ,._ man with his back to us, wearing a red plaid quilted jacket and a hunting cap with earflaps, is laboring over a large power tool which his body blocks from view.
C: ~GE
D: Looking.
C: HER POV
D: The man is forcing something downwards, which engages the roaring powertool and makes harsh spluttering noises.
C: CLOSE RBVBRSE
D: On the man. The roar is very loud here. The man is Grimsrud, his nose red and eyes watering from the cold, hatflaps pulled down over his ears. His breath vaporizes as he sourly goes about his work, both hands pressing down on a shod foot, as you would press down on the shaft of a butter churn. Behind Grimsrud we see the woods, and movement. '6- )QRGE ~ Slogging down to the next tree, panting, looking.
C: HER POV
D: Grimsrud forcing something into the machine, which we can now see sprays small wet chunks out the bottom.
C: W>.RGE
D: Her eyes shift.
C: HER POV
D: A large dark foI:m lying _in the snow next to Grimsrud.
C: CLOSE ON GRIMSRUD
D: Loud roar. Eyes watering. Emerging from the woods behind him we see the large khaki-colored shape of Marge Gunderson, advancing, her right aI:m extended. ~ With a grunt Grimsrud bends down out of frame momentarily, and reenters holding a thick log. He uses it to force the leg deeper into the machine. I
N: Marge is advancing. We can now see the gun in her extended right arm. Grimsrud rubs his nose with the back of his hand.
C: CLOSE ON MUGE
D: Breath steaming out of her nose, corners of her mouth drawn down in a grimace as she advances. One arm is still curled under her belly.
C: HER POV
D: Hand-held track in on Grimsrud's back as he puts his weight into the log that pushes down into the machine. The dark shape in the snow to his side is the rest of Carl Rolvaag's body.
C: CLOSE ON GRIMSRUD
D: Sourly at work as, behind him, Marge draws to within twenty yards. When she bellows it sounds strangely hollow and distant, her voice all but eaten up by the roar of the powertool: Marge Stop! Police! Turn around and hands up! Startled, Grimsrud scowls. He turns to face her. He stares. Marge bellows again: . Hands up! Conscious of the noise, she show ■ with a twist of her shoulder the armpatch insignia: ... Police! Grimsrud stares.
C: I
D: With a quick twist of his body he reaches back for the log and hurls it at Marge and then starts running away. Marge twists her body sideways, shielding her stanach. No need--the heavy log travels perhaps ten yards and lands in the snow several feet short of her.
C: PULLING GRIMSRUD
D: As he pants up the hill--slow going through the deep snow. Behind him: Marge Halt! She fires in the air.
C: ON MARGE
D: She lowers the gun and carefully sights. She fires.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: Marge Halt! Still slogging up the hill--a miss.
C: MARGE
D: Still sighting . . Marge Halt! She fires again.
C: GRIMSRUD
D: He pitches forward. He muttters in Swedish as he reaches down to clutch at his wounded leg. ~ Marge walks toward him, gun trained on him, other hand now
N: reaching under her parka and feeling around her waist. It comes out with a pair of handcuffs which she opens with a snap of the wrist. She holds them up near her ear, her other hand pointing the gun down at Grimsrud. MP.rge All right buddy. On your belly and your hands clasped behind you.
C: THE CRUISER
D: Marge drives; Grimsrud sits in the back seat, hands cuffed behind him. For a long moment there is quiet--just engine hum and the periodic clomp of wheels on pavement seams--as Marge grimly shakes her head. She stops shaking her head, but still looks grimly out at the road. Marge .. So that was Mrs. Lundegaard in there? She glan.ces up in the rear view mirror. Grimsrud, cheeks sunk, eyes hollow, looks sourly out at the road. Marge grimly shakes her head. At length: Marge ... I guess that was your accomplice in the woodchipper. Grimsrud'a bead bobs with bumps in the road; otherwise be is motionless, reactionless, scowling and gazing out. Marge also- stares out at the road . . And those three people in Brainerd. No response. Marge seems to be talking more to herself now . . . . And for what. Pora little bit of money.
C: I
D: We hear distant sirens . . . . There's more to life than a little money, you know. She glances up again in the rear view mirror. . . . Don't you know that?. . . And here ya are, and it's a beautiful day. Grimsrud's hollow eyes stare out. The sirens are getting louder. Marge pulls the car .over. . . . Well. . . She leans forward to the dash to give two short signalling WHOOPS on her siren. She turns on her flashers. She leans back with a creak and jangle of utilities. She stares forward, grimly shakes her head. We hear the dull click of her flashers . . . . I just don't unnerstand it.
C: THE ROAD
D: It is snowing. The sky, the earth, the road--all white. A squad car, gumbballs spinning, punches through the white, approaching in slow motion. An ambulance punches through after it. Another squad car. FADE OUT FADE IN
C: HIGH ANGLE
D: A small motel, straddling the interstate on a snowy windswept plain. One or two cars dot the parking lot along with an idling police cruiser. l«>TEL ROOM DOORWAY ,,.. We are looking over the shoulders of two uniformed policemen who stand ~neither side of the doorway, their hands resting lightly on their holstered side-arms. one of them raps at the door. Cop one Mr. Anderson. A title fades in on the screen: OUTSIDE OF BISM1JUC, NORTH DAKOTA After a pause, muffled through the door: Voice . Who?. . Cop One Mr. Anderson, is this your Fifth Avenue? Voice Just a sec. Cop One Could you open the door please? Voice Yah. Yah, just a sec. We hear a clatter from inside . . . . Just a sec ... one of the policemen unholsters his gun and nods to someone whose back then enters--a superintendent holding a ring of key_s. This man turns a key in the door and then standsaway. The two policemen, guns at the ready, bang into the motel room. The rough hand-held camera rushes in behind them as the two men give the room a two-handed sweep with their guns. The room is empty. Cop One indicates the open bathroom door. Cop One Dale! The two men charge the bathroom, belts jingling, guns at the ready, jittery camera behind them rushing to keep pace. A man in boxer shorts is halfway out the bathroom window. The policemen holster their guns as they charge the window, and drag Jerry Lundegaard back into the room. ,,. His flesh quivers as he hyperventilates and keens in short peircing acreams. The cops wrestle him to the floor but Jerry thrashes in a palsied fit. Both policemen struggle to restrain him. Cop One Call an ambulance! Cop 'l'Vo You got him okay? Cop One pinions Jerry's arms to the floor and Jerry bursts into uncontrollable sobbing. Cop One Yah, yah, call an ambulance. Jerry sobs and screams.
C: A BEDROOM
D: We are square on Norm who sits up in bed, under the covers, eyes on a television set that sits at the foot of the bed. He absently munches from a bag of potato chips. We hear the low audio of a talk show. After a long beat Marge enters frame in a nightie and climbs into bed, with some effort. Marge Oooph! Norm reaches for her hand as both watch the television. At length Norm speaks, but keeps his eyes on the TV: Norm They announced it. Marge looks at him. Marge They announced it?! Norm Yah. ,-.. Marge looks at him, waiting for more, but Norm's eyes stay fixed
N: on the TV. Marge So? Norm Three cent stamp. Marge Your mallard?! Norm Yah. Marge Norm, that's terrific! Norm tries to stifle a smile of pleasure. Norm It's just the three cent. Marge It's terrific! Norm Hauptmann's blue-winged teal got the twenty­ nine cent. People don't much use the three cent. Marge Oh for Petes--a course they do! Every time they raise t he darned postage, people need the little stamps! Norm Yah. Marge Whentbeyre stuck with a bunch a the old ones! Norm yah, I guess. Marge That's terrific. Her eyes go t>: ' to the TV. I'm so proud a you, Norm. l . They watch TV . . Heck, we're doin' pretty good, Norm. Norm munnurs: Norn, I love you, Margie. Marge I love you, Norm. Both of them are watching the TV as Norm reaches out to rest a hand on top of her stomach. Norm ... Two more months. Marge absently rests her own hand on top of his. Marge Two more months.
T: Hold; fade out.
