M: FULL METAL JACKET
M: A
M: Screenplay
M: 'by
M: Stanley Kubrick
M: and
M: Michael Herr
M: Based on
M: the novel
M: TBE SHORT-TIMERS
M: 'by
M: Gustav Basford
M: I
M: 1967 - PARRIS ISLAND
M: "IS THAT YOU JOHN WAYNE?
M: IS THIS ME?"
M: -1-
M: The Marines are looking for a few good men
M: Barbershop. A row of barbers with electric
M: clippers work ankle deep
M: in hair as they give the
M: young Marine recruits a 30-second, akin-head
M: haircut. We aee Joker, Cowboy and Leonard.
M: A
M: drill instructor shouts at the
M: line of
M: waiting recruits: "You are about t.o receive your
M: first Marine Corps recruit haircut. You
M: will be
M: ahaved completely bald.
M: "If you have a mole, bump, scar or anything
M: else protruding from your head, and by protruding
M: I mean anything sticking up out of your head, the
M: minute you sit down in that chair place
M: your
M: finger on whatever
M: it is on your head, and let the
M: barber know whatever is there, verbally, by
M: aaying, 'Sir, the private 'h.as a mole on his
M: head'.
M: -2-
M: Dawn. Green Marines. Two junior drill
M: instructors acreaming, "GET IN LINE! GET IN LINE!
M: YOU
M: WILL NOT MOVE! YOU
M: WILL NOT SPEAK!" Red brick
M: 'buildings. WillO'W trees hung thick with Spanish
M: moss. The shaved recruits standing tall on yellow
M: footprints
M: painted in a pattern on the concrete
M: deck.
M: Parris Island, South Carolina, the United
M: States Marine Coros Recruit Oe~ot, an
M: eight-week college for
M: the phoney-tough and
M: the crazy-brave.
M: "I am Gunnery Sergeant Gerheim,
M: your senior
M: drill instructor. And these are your junior drill
M: instructors,
M: Corporal Ilurrane and Corporal
M: Seaton. From now on, you will ■ peak only -.men
M: spoken
M: to, and the first word out
M: of your mouth
M: will be, sirl Do you maggots understand that?"
M: The recruits mumble "Yes, sir, but not in
M: unison.
M: "I can't hear you! Sound off
M: like you got a
M: pairl"
M: "!!.2_, SIR!
M: Gunnery Sergeant Gerheim spits. "Listen up,
M: herd.
M: You maggots had better start looking like
M: United States Marine Corps recruits. Do not think
M: for
M: one second that you are Marines. You
M: just
M: dropped by to pick up a set
M: of dress blues. Am I
M: right, ladies?"
M: "YES, SIR!
M: Joker says in a John Wayne voice: "I think
M: I'm going t.o hate this movie.
M: Cowboy laughs.
M: Gunnery Sergeant. Gerheim laughs, too. The
M: senior drill instruct.or is l1ll obscene little ogre
M: in .immaculate khaki.
M: Sergeant. Gerheim walks slowly back along t.he
M: line
M: of recruits. "Who said that.?"
M: Silence.
M: Sergeant. Gerheim
M: peers into each face. "Who
M: said t.hat.?"
M: I did, sir, Joker says.
M: Sergeant. Gerheim aims his index finger
M: bet.ween Joker's
M: eyes and says, "Private Joker I
M: like honesty. I like you. You can come
M: over t.o
M: 'ltl';/ house end fuck 'ltl';/ sister.
M: Be grins. Be
M: punches Joker int.he stomach.
M: Joker sinks t.o his knees.
M: "You little scuml)ag. I got. your llllJlle. I got.
M: your ass. You~~ laugh. You~~ cry.
M: You will learn by t.he numl)ers. I will teach you.
M: Get.
M: upl
M: Joker gets t.o his feet. end comest.oat.tent.ion.
M: Leonerd Pratt. grins.
M: Sergeant. Gerheim puts his fists
M: on his hips.
M: "ll you ladies leave 'ltl';/ island, g you survive
M: recruit. training, you will be a weapon, you will
M: be a minister of death, praying for war. And
M: proud. Until t.hat. day you ere pukes, you ere
M: scuml:legs, you
M: ere the lowest. form of
M: life on
M: Earth. You are not.
M: even human. You people are
M: nothing but. a lot. of little pieces of amphibian
M: shit..
M: Leonard Pra t.t. '1 rins
M: "You got a name, scumbag?"
M: ""Leonard Pratt, sir,"
M: he aays with a thick
M: hillbilly accent.
M: "Like hell it isl From now on you're Gommer
M: Pyle!
M: Leonard Grins.
M: "Private Pyle thinks
M: I am a
M: real funny guy.
M: Be
M: thinks that Parris Island
M: is more fun than a
M: sucking chest wound."
M: The hillbilly's face is frozen into a
M: permanent expression of oat-fed innocence.
M: Be
M: punches Leonard in
M: the chest.
M: "You maggots are not
M: going to have any fun
M: here. You are not going to enjoy standing in
M: straight lines and you are not
M: going to enjoy
M: massaging your 01o1n wand. My orders are to weed
M: out all nonhackers who do
M: not pack the gear to
M: serve in Tfl'f beloved Corps. Because I am hard, you
M: will not
M: like me. But the more
M: you hate me, the
M: more
M: you will learn. I am hard cut I am fair.
M: There is
M: no racial bigotry here. We do
M: not look
M: down on
M: niggers, kikes, wops or
M: greasers, because
M: here
M: you are all equally worthless. Do you
M: understand?"
M: Some
M: of them mumble, "Yes. Yeah. Yes,
M: sir.
M: "I can't ~r you, ladies!"
M: "Yes, sirl"
M: "I atill can't hear you, ladies!"
M: "YES, SIRi
M: "You piss me off. Bit the deck."
M: They crumple down onto the parade deck.
M: "You got
M: no motivation. Do you hear me,
M: maggots? ,Listen up.
M: I will give
M: you motivation.
M: You have no esprit de corps, I will give you
M: esprit de corps. You have no traditions. I will
M: give
M: you traditions. And I
M: will show you how to
M: live
M: up to them.
M: Sergeant Gerheim struts, ramrod straight,
M: hands on hips. "GET UP I GET tJP I
M: They get up, knees sore, hands gritty.
M: Sergeant Gerheim says to his two junior drill
M: instructors: eWhat a humble herd. Then to the
M: recruits: "You silly scumbags are too slow. Bit
M: the deck.
M: Down.
M: "BIT ITI"
M: Down.
M: Sargeant Gerheim steps over their struggling
M: bodies,
M: stomps fingers, kicks ribs with the
M: toe of
M: his boot. "Jesus B. Christ.
M: You maggots are
M: huffing and puffing the way your moD'.l!la did
M: the
M: first time your old man put the meat to her.
M: "GET UP I GET UP I
M: ~- Muscles aching.
M: Leonard Pratt is slow getting up.
M: Sergeant Gerheim stands over
M: him. "Okay,
M: scumbag, on your feet.
M: Leonard gets up on one knee, hesitates, then
M: stands up, inhaling and exhaling. Be grins.
M: "Why are you grinning at me,
M: Private Pyle?
M: "I don't know, sir.
M: "You are grinning at me, you ugly ape!"
M: "I can't help it, sir!"
M: "You got a crush on me?"
M: No, airl"
M: "You want to smoke rrry pole?"
M: "No, sir I
M: Then you hate me? You want to kill me?"
M: No, sir I
M: "Don't lie to me.
M: "Sir, I'm not lying to you.
M: "!!2E,? :!!:!£? Did you say:!!:!£? Do you know
M: what a ewe is? A ewe is a female sheep. A female
M: sheep is for fucking!"
M: sir .. "
M: "Why do you want to fuck your drill
M: instructor???"
M: Sergeant Gerheim
M: punches Leonard in the chest
M: hard. Leonard doubles over with pain. "LOCK THEM
M: U'EI S I YOU' RE AT ATTENTION I"
M: Leonard comes to attention. :tyes front. But
M: the trace of a grin remains.
M: "Wipe that grin off
M: your face,
M: The grin is involuntary and Leonard cannot
M: always control it.
M: Sergeant Gerheim backhands Leonard across
M: the
M: face.
M: Blood.
M: Leonard locks his heels, Leonard's lips are
M: busted, pink and purple, and his
M: mouth is bloody,
M: but Leonard only shrugs and grins as though
M: Gunnery Sergeant Gerheim had just given him a
M: birthday present.
M: "Why did you join
M: the Marine Corps?"
M: "To become a man, Sirl"
M: "Private Pyle, you may just be the duml:>est
M: United States Marine recruit in Marine Corps
M: history.
M: -3-
M: Close order drill, Leonard makes a mistake.
M: private Pyle, what are you trying to
M: do to
M: l'lt'f beloved Corps?
M: "I'm sorry, sir, Leonard says.
M: "You are dumb Private Pile, but do you expeet
M: me
M: to believe you don't
M: know right from left?"
M: "No, air.
M: "Then you did it on purpose. You want to be
M: different.
M: "No, air. The traee of a grin appears at
M: the corners of his mouth.
M: "You think I'm stupid."
M: 5o, sir.
M: "Then why are you grinning at me?"
M: "I'm not grinning, ■ irl"
M: Gerheim hits Leonard on the right side of his
M: faee, a hard ■tunning slap. Pain takes the grin
M: away.
M: "What side was that?"
M: "Right side, ■ irl"
M: Are you ■ure?"
M: "Yes, sir I
M: Be ■ laps him ju ■ t as hard on the left side.
M: "And what aide was that?"
M: pain.
M: "Left, sir, Leonard says, blinking with
M: "Don't fuek with
M: me again, ■ eumbag.
M: "Yes, ■ irl
M: The elose
M: order drill continues.
M: Beatings, we learn, are a routine element of
M: li£e on Parris Island. And
M: not that
M: I'm-only-rough-on-'wn-because-I-love-'um crap
M: in Mr. John Wayne's The Sands
M: of Iwo Jima,
M: -4-
M: Mesa hall. The recruits move aideways at the
M: position
M: of attention, trays held
M: flat against
M: their
M: cheats, pressed close to the man in front of
M: them, the OI's ahouting, Assholes to
M: belly-button! Assholes to belly-button!"
M: Mounds of scrambled eggs
M: are piled high on
M: each tray, with aauaages, bacon, ha.shed brown
M: potatoes,
M: cereal, toast and grapefruit.
M: The recrui ta foll.ow the man in £rent of them
M: from the food counter
M: to tables which hold
M: twelve. They stand at attention while one
M: recruit
M: says grace, reading from a printed plastic card
M: which looks
M: like a menu and which baa its own
M: little stand on each table.
M: On the command, the recruits sit. Sergeant
M: Gerheim suddenl.y appears at Leonard's place and
M: bellow-s, private Pyle!
M: Leonard leaps to
M: his feet. "Yes, air!
M: Sergeant Gerheim aweepa Leonard's tray to the
M: floor with a loud crash of dishes and cutlery.
M: "Private Pyle, the
M: doctors have certified
M: you as a fatbody. With
M: those tits on you you
M: belong in Playboy. You will receive half-portions
M: at all meals and no deserts, potatoes, bread, jam
M: or
M: butter! Ia that clear?
M: "Aye, aye, sir!
M: -s-
M: Various training shots. Leonard being
M: ■houted at and beaten.
M: For the first four weeks of recruit training
M: Leonard continues
M: to grin, even though he
M: receives
M: more than his share of the
M: beatings. Even having the shit beat out
M: of
M: him with calculated
M: regularity fails to
M: educate Leonard the way it educates
M: the other
M: recruits in Platoon 30-92. Leonard tries
M: harder than any of
M: us. lie can't do anything
M: right.
M: -6-
M: At night, as the platoon sleeps in
M: double-tiered metal bUllks, Leonard cries. Joker
M: whispers to him to be quiet. lie stops crying.
M: Barracks.
M: On the first day of
M: our fifth week, Sergeant
M: Gerheim beats the hell out of me.
M: Private Joker!"
M: 1 want you and Private Cowboy to clean the
M: head!
M: Yes, sirl"
M: I want it so sanitary and
M: spotless and
M: sparkling that the Virgin Mary herself would 1::>e
M: proud. to go in there and. take a dump.
M: Yes, sirt
M: Joker and Cowboy start for
M: the head..
M: Private Jokert
M: 00 you l:>elieve in the Virgin Mary?"
M: - No SIRI. I say.
M: lO
M: It's a trick question. Any answer will be
M: wrong, and Sergeant Gerheim will beat me
M: harder
M: if I reverse myself.
M: Sergeant Gerheim punches
M: Joker in the solar
M: ple:i:us with his elbow. You little maggot, he
M: says, and. his fist punctuates the sentence. "Are
M: you a Jew?"
M: "No, sir I
M: An athiest?"
M: No, sir I
M: A communist?"
M: No, Sir I"
M: Joker stands to attention, heels locked, eyes
M: front, swallowing groans, trying not to flinch.
M: You make me want to vomit, scumbag. You
M: god.damn heathen. You better sound off that you
M: love the Virgin Mary or I'm going to stomp your
M: yuts out.
M: Sergeant Gerheim's face is about an inch from
M: Joker's
M: left ear. :ens FRONT! Spit sprinkles
M: his
M: face.
M: ll
M: "Are you winking at me?" More spit.
M: Joker
M: 'blinks.
M: "Are you eye-fucking me?"
M: Be punches Joker
M: in the stomach.
M: "Negative, ■ ir.
M: "You want to fuck your drill instructor? You
M: want to ■moke his pole?" More spit.
M: "No, ■ irl" Joker manages not to blink.
N: If I catch you winking at me again, I 'm going to gouge your eyes out and ■kullfuck youl" "Yes, ■ irl" "Now, sound off, you do love the Virgin Mary, don't you?"
C: "SIR, NEGATIVE, SIRI"
D: "What did you say, prive?" "SIR, TEE PRIVATE SAID, 'NO, SIRI' SIRI" Sergeant Gerheim'a beefy red face floats 'by like a co'bra 'being ~rmed by music. Bis eyes drill into Joker's, they invite him to look at him: they dare him to move his eyes one fraction of an inch. "Rave you seen the light? The white light? The great light? The guiding light - do you have the vision?"
C: "SIR, AYE-AYE, SIRI"
D: "Who's your ■ quad leader, scuml:>ag?"
N: SIR, TBE PRIVATE' S SQUAD LEADER IS PRJ:VATE
C: SNOWBALL, SIRI"
D: "Private Snowball, front and. center. Private Snowball, a 'black recruit, runs down the center of the squad 'bay, snaps to att~ntion in front of Sergeant Gerheim. "AYE-AYE, SIRI "Private Snowball, you're fired. Private
N: Joker is promoted to squad leader, Private Snowball hesitates. "AYE-AYE, SIR!" Private Snowball, does an about-face, runs back down the squad bay, falls back into line in front of his rack, snaps to attention, Sergeant Gerheim turns to Leonard. "Private Pyle, Private Joker is your new bunlanate. Private Joker is a very bright boy. He will teach you everything, Ee will teach you how to pee." Joker says, "SIR, TEE PRIVATE WOULD PREFER TO STAY WITE EIS BUNKMATE, PRIW.TE COWBOY, SIR!" Sergeant Gerheim looks from Joker to Cowboy, "You queer for Private CowtK,y'a gear? You smoke his pole?"
C: "SIR, NEGATIVE, SIR!"
D: "Outstanding, Then Private Joker will bunk with Private Pyle. Private Joker is silly and he's ignorant, but he's got guts, and guts is enough, -e- Training continues. Shots feature Joker and Leonard, I teac::h Leonard everything I know, from how to lace his black combat boots to the assembly and disassembly of the M-14 semi-automatic shoulder weapon I teach Leonard that Marines work hard. Only shitbirds try to avoid work, only shitbirds try to skate. Marines are clean, not skuzzy. I teach Leonerd to value his rifle as he values his life. I teach him that blood makes the grass grow. "This here gun is one mean-looking piece of iron, sure enough." Leonard's clumsy fingers snap his weapon together. "Think of your rifle as a tool, Leonard. Like an axe on the farm." Leonard grins. "Okay. You're right, Joker. Re looks at Joker. "I'm sure glad you're helping me, Joker. You're my friend. I know I'm slow. I always been slow. Nobody ever helped me . Joker turns away, "That sounds like a personal problem," he says, keeping his eyes on his weapon. Hail Call. "Private Pyle. -9- Leonard yells his name, runs down the squad bay and comes to attention in front of Sergeant Gerheim. "Private Pyle, sirl" Sergeant Gerheim looks at the envelope. "Who's Lucie Pratt?" "Sir, that's the private's sister. "Pees she smoke your pole?" "No, sir." Leonard grins. Is she a good fuck?" sir, I don't know. Maggot, do you expect me to believe there's a shit-kicker in Al.abama who doesn't fuck his sister?" Maybe she likes coons. you think I'm funny?" "No, sir I" "Then wipe that fucking grin off." "Yes, sir I Go." "Aye, aye, sir. Leonard claps the letter between his palms, held out horizontally, takes one step backwards, does an about face, and runs back to his bunk. -lO- outdoor school circle. The Platoon is grouped in a semi-circle around Sergeant Gerheim. Sergeant Gerheim holding an M-l4 says, "The deadliest weapon in the world is a Marine and bis rifle. It is your killer instinct which must be harnessed if you expect to survive in combat. Your rifle is only a tool: it is a bard heart that kills. If your killer instincts are not clean and strong, you will hesitate at the moment of truth. You will not kill. You will become dead Marines and then you will be in a world of shit because Marines are not allowed to die without permission: you are government property I And: -11- During our sixth week, Sergeant Gerheim orders us to double-time around the aguad bay with our ~eniaes in our left hands and our weapons in our right hands, singing: Thia is my rifle Thia is my gun One is for fighting And one is for fun. I don't want no teen-aged queen All I want is my M-14. Sergeant Gerheim holds up a rifle. You will give your rifle a girl' a name. This is the only pussy you people are going to get. Your days of finger-banging ol' Mary Jane Rottencrotch through her pretty pink panties are over. You're married to~ piece, this weapon of iron and wood, and you~ be faithful." They run. And they sing Well, I don't know But I 'been told Eskimo pussy Is mighty cold -12- Inspection. My mind isn't on my responsibilities and I forget to remind Leonard to shave. Sergeant Gerheim looks disappointed. Private Joker! Yes, sir. Private l?yle did not stand close enough to his razor this morning. No, sir. Private l?ylel" Yes, air. Into the head, on the double!" Yes, sir I" Leonard double-times into the head. Recruit squad leaders, into the head, on the double!" Yes, air!" Joker and the other recruit squad leaders double-time into the head. Sergeant Gerhei.m strides in after them. "Recruit squad leaders form a circle around this toilet, They apprehensively group themselves around the toilet. "Now, on my comnand, you will open your pants and urinate into the toilet. Oo you understand?" YEs, SIR! 0pen your pants and urinate in the toilet!" They hesitate. Is THIS A MUTINY??" No, SIR!" "LOCK THEM HEELS I YOU ARE AT ATTENTION I READDDDY WHIZZzz They ..mizz. Sergeant Gerheim grabs the back cf Leonard's neck and forces Leonard to his knees, pushes hi head down into the yellow peel. Leonard struggles. Bubbles. Panic gives Leonard strength; Sergeant Gerheim hclds him down. After it seems that Leonard has drowned, Sergeant Gerheim flushes the toilet. Wben the water steps flowing, Sergeant Gerheim releases his held en Lecnard'a neck. Leonard straightens up, coughing and sputtering, his face and hair soaked in urine. Gerheim says: "Private Pyle, I wouldn't put rrr., hands in piss fer just anybody. I hcpe you appreciate that. "Yes, sir. -13- Practise field bayonet training. Sergeant Gerheim demonstrates effective attack techniques to a recruit named Barnard, a acft-apcken farm boy from Maine. The beefy drill instructor knocks cut twc cf Private Barnard's teeth with a rifle butt. Sergeant Gerheim says, "The purpose cf bayonet training is to awaken your killer instincts. The killer instinct will make you atrcng. If the meek ever inherit the earth the strong will take it away frcm them. The weak exist tc be devoured by the strong. Every Marine must pack his 011(?1 gear. Every Marine must be the instrument of his own salvation." -14- The confidence course was designed to test the recruits' fear of heights. The Confidence Course: they 90 hand over hand down a rope strung at a forty-five-degree angle across a pond - the slide-for-life. They hang upside down like monkeys and crawl headfirst down the rope. Leonard falls off the slide-for-life repeatedly, Be almost drowns. Be cries. Be climbs the tower. Be tries again. Be falls off again. This time he sinks. Cowboy and Joker dive into the pond. They pull Leonard out of the muddy water. Be's unconscious. Joker says, Should we take him to the sick. bay, air? Gerheim kneels down to see how badly he is hurt. Be says loudly, 1t 1 11 okay. It's just a hard-on I -is- Back at the squad bay Sergeant Gerheim fits a Trojan rubber with a hole in it over the mouth of a canteen and throws the canteen at Leonard. The canteen hits Leonard on the aide of the head. Sergeant Gerheim bellows, "Marines~ ,!!2l cry! You will fill this canteen with milk, and every day after chow you will nurse it at the table!" -16- Mess Ball. Leonard is nursing on the canteen. The recruits at his table try not to notice but crude and derisory remarks come from drill instructors at nearby tables. -17- Practise field. Pugil stick fighting. Two recruits face each other. Each man wears a football style helmet, face mask and groin protector. Be is armed with a five-foot pole, padded at each end. The object l::>eing to knock your opponent down. The platoon is formed around the combatants in a large circle. The DI'a yell at the them to be more aggressive. The recruits play war with the pugil sticks. They beat each other without mercy. -is- The recruits enter the 'barracks from a training session. Leonard finds his bedding and the contents of his opened locker box strewn on the floor. Gerheim at.ands at. the far end of the barracks, hands on hips. "Ten huttl" The recruits line up at attention in front of their bunks. Gerheim says, "Private Pyle!" "Yes, air I" "Get up here, on the double!" "Yes, air. Leonard double-times up the squad bay and comes to attention in front of Gerheim. "Do you recognize this?" Be points to a jelly-donut, placed on a sheet of newspaper on the table. "Yes, sir." "What. is it?" "A jelly-donut, air. "Do you know where I found it.?" "Yes, ■ irl" "Where?" "In my footlocker, sir. aow did it get there?" "I took it from the mess hall, sir. "Private Pyle, are you allowed to eat jelly-donuts?" "Why not., Private Pyle?" "Because I am too heavy, air. aecause you are a disgusting fatbody, Private Pyle. And is food allowed in the barracks, Private Pyle? 1i10, air. 'l'hen why did you hide a jelly-donut in your footlocker, Private Pyle? Because I was hungry, air. secause you were hungry?" yes, air. Go back to your place, Private Pyle. "Yes, air. Leonard double-times back to his bunk. Private Pyle has dishonoured himself and dishonoured the platoon. Be is a dumbass, cawardly, fatl:>ody, a ten-percenter who does not pack the gear to be in my beloved Corps. I have tried to help him. but I have failed, I have failed because you have not helped me. You have not given Private Pyle the right motivation, So from now on whenever Private Pyle fucks up I will not punish him, I will punish all of you. -19- outside the barracks, the platoon does many squat-thrusts and aide-straddle heps, many, many of them. Leonard has been positioned, facing the platoon, standing at ease. -20- :t.eonard touches Joker's arm as they move through the chow line with their metal trays. "I just can't do nothing right. I need 110me help. I don't want you l::loys to be in trouble. I-" Joksr moves away. -21- The first night of our seventh week of training the ~latoon gives Leonard a blanket party. Midnight. The fire watch sta.nds by. Private Philips, the House Mouse, Sergeant Gerheim's "go~fer, pads barefoot down the squad bay to watch for Sergeant Gerheim. In the dark, fifty recruits walk to Leonard's rack. Leonard is grinning, even in his sleep. The squad leaders hold towels and bars of soap. Four recruits throw a blanket over Leonard. They grip the corners of the blanket so that :t.eonard can't sit up and eo that his creams will be muffled. The sound of hard breathing of fifty sweating bodies and the fi.lmp and thud as Cowboy and Private Barnard beat Leonard with bars of eoap slung in t01o1els. Leonard' screams are like the braying of a sick mule, heard far away. Be struggles. The eyes of the platoon are on Joker. Eye are aimed at Joker in the dark, eyes like rubies. Leonard ■tops ■ creaming. Joker hesitates. The eyes are on him, Be ■ teps back, Cowboy punches him in the chest with his towel and a bar of ■ oap. Joker slings the towel, drops in the soap, and then beats Leonard who has ■topped moving. Be liea in ■ ilence stunned, gagging for air. Joker beat him harder and harder and when he feels tears being flung from his eyes, he beats him harder for it. -22- The next day, on the parade deck, Leonard does not grin. When Gunnery Sergeant Gerheim asks, What do we do for a living, ladies? and the platoon replies, KILLI KILLI KILLI, Leonard remains ■ ilent. When he asks, ~at makes the grass grow? and they reply BLOOD! BLOOD! BLOOD!" Leonard remains ■ ilent. When the junior drill instructors ask, 00 we love the beloved Crotch, ladies? and the platoon answers with one voice, "GUNG BOI GUNG BOI GUNG BOI" Leonard is silent. -23- Shots of the platoon firing their rifles. On the third day of our seventh week we move to the rifle range and shoot holes in paoer targets. Later they are grouped around Gerheim. "Does a.nyone kno'lffl who Charles Whitma.n was?" Bla.nk faces. "None of you dumbasses knows?" Cowboy ■ lowly raises his hand. "Private Cowboy?" "Was he the guy that ■hot a lot of people from a roof?" "'l'hat' ■ right, Private Cowboy. Be shot a.nd killed twelve people from a 28-story observation tower at the University of Texas, from distances of up to four hundred yards. 'l'he recruits look impressed. "Does a.nybody know who Lee Barvey Oswald That's easy. Al.most every hand goes up. "Private Snowball?" Private Snowball says, "Be shot Kennedy, Sir!" "That's right. And do you know how far away he was?" "It was pretty far. From that book suppository building, air?" "Two hundred and fifty feet. Be was two hundred and fifty feet away and shooting at a moving target. Be got off three shots with a bolt i action rifle in six seconds, and got two hits, including a head shot. Do you kno,,,, where those men learned to shoot like that?" 5o one knova. Joker raises his hand. Private Joker, "In the Marines, air?" 1n the Marines. Outstanding! Nov those people did not put their Marine training to a good purpose but they shoved what a Marine with his rifle can do, and before I am through you will all be able to do the ■ ame thing. Leonard at.area at Gerheim. -24- Parade deck. Manual of arms. "I want to hear some snap, crackle and pop with those -pons. Leonard and other recruits smartly doing their manual of arms. "When you ■ nap those rifles to port arms, I only want to bear one pop!" By the end of our seventh week Leonard has become a model recruit. Day by day, he is more motivated, more ■ g:uared away, We decide that Leonard' silence ia a result of his intense concentration. Bia manual of arm11 i11 flavles11 now, but his eyes are milk glass.
C: I I I I
D: -25- Barracks. !light. Leonard c:leaning hi diaml:1led rifle, Be handles each piece lovingly and ■ ee11111 to be talking to them. Leonard cleans his weapon more than any recruit in the platoon, Every night after chow Leonard caresses the ■ carred oak ■ tock with linseed oil the way hundreds of earlier recruits have caressed the ■ ame piece of wood, -26- Training ■hots featuring Leonard, Leonard improves at everything, but remains ■ ilent. Be does what he is told but he is no lenser part of the platoon. Sergeant Gerheim is careful not to come down too hard on Leonard as long as Leonard remains ■ guared away. -27- During the hour before Taps, the platoon is working on it ■ ■hoes, brass and rifles. A ICet!tuckyboy named Perkins lays his rifle down, steps to the center of the ■ quad bay and. ■ lashes his wrist with his bayonet. Ch, Jesus Christ, Cowboy says.
C: I
D: Leonard slowly gets to his feet but says nothing. Gerheim gets up from his ta'ble at the head of the room and walks unhurriedly down the ■ quad 'bay. Be ■tops in front of Perkins who iJS ■till holding the 'bayonet. private Perkin ■, ■heath your 'bayonet! Perkins doesn't 1110ve. Sh ■ ath your bayonet, ■ cum'bagl" Perkins drops the 'bayonet on the floor. Gerbeim walks closer and looks at Perkins' vri ■ t. It' a mesa but Gerheim decides he's got ■ ome tillle. private Perkins, why have you made a mess in my nice, clean squad 'bay?" Perkins doesn't reply. private Perkins, I did not have you down as a shit'bird. Why have you done this? Perkins says nothing. Private Perkins, you have let me down. You have let the platoon down. You are a gutless piece of ahit. Perkins just stands look~ng at the floor. private Perkins, you can live like a pig in your own home but not in~ barracks! Get a 1110p &Jld bucket and clean up this meas. After that, double-time to the aick bay. Perkins ■ tumbles off to get the mop. Gerheim ■peaks to the platoon. private Perkins 'botched the jo'b. lilow, if any of you other ahitbirde ever get the ■ame idea you better do it right. . The approved o.s. Marine Corps way is to take a razor blade and cut deep
E: Bolda out his arm and mimes what he ■ aya
C: I
D: I
N: and vertical from wrist to elbow. Oo you understand?" ns, SIR!" the platoon shouts. Azld do it in the shower - no mess afterwards - and do it. in the middle of the night ao you'll bave enough time to bleed before anyone finds you. Ia that clear?" ns - fill" the platoon shouts. E:r.cept Leonard, who says nothing. -2e- 'l'he platocn, led by Sergeant Gerheim is singing. Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to you, Sappy Birthday dear Jesus, Sappy Birthday to you. Gerheim says, "God has a hard-on for Marines 'because we kill everything we see. Be plays his g11111u, we play ours. To show our appreciation for so much power, - keep heaven packed with :fresh acula The Marine Corps 'WII.S here before God. You can give your heart to Jesus 'but your ass 'belongs to the Corpe Do you understand?"
C: YES, SIR!
D: Today ia Christmas. 'l'nere 'Will be a magic show at 0930 and the Chaplain expects everyone there except Jews and atheist.a "
C: I
D: -29- Night. Barrack.a. The platoon at.ands 'by unt.il Sergeant. Gerhei.111 ■nap ■ out. his last. order oft.he days Prepare t0 mount. Readddy MOUNTI Then they're lying on their 'backs in their ■kivvie ■, at. at.tent.ion, their weapons held at. port. arms. They ■ ay their prayers: This i ■ 't1f'J rifle. There are many like it. 'but. thi ■ one i■ mine. My rifle i ■ 't1f'J 'best. friend. It. i ■ 't1f'J life. I mu ■t. mast.er it. as I must. ma■ t.er 't1f'J life. "Without. 't1f'J rifle, I am useless. I must. fire 't1f'J rifle true. I must. ■hoot. ■ t.raight.er t.han 't1f'J enemy who is trying t0 kill me. I must. ■hoot. him 'before he shoot.a me. I will. Leonard is ■ peaking fort.he first. ti.me in weeks. Eli ■ voice 'booms louder and louder. Beads t.urn. Bodies ■hift.. The platoon voice fades. Leonard is about. t.o explode. Elis wcrds are 'being coughed up from some deep, ggly place. Sergeant. Gerhei.111 bas t.he night. duty. Be at.rut.a t.o Leonard's rack and st.ands 'by, fist.a on hips. Leonard c!oesn 't. aee Sergeant. Gerheim, 'l'he veins in Leonard' a neck are 'bulging as 'be 'bellows : MY RIFLE IS truMAN, EV'E.N AS I, BECAUSE IT IS MY LIFE. '!'BUS I WIU. LEA1m IT AS A BROTHER. I WILL LEA.R.N ITS WEAKNESSES, ITS STRENGTHS,
C: I
D: rrs PAll.TS, ITS ACCESSORIES, ITS SIGHTS, AND ITS 13A.RllL, 1 WILL ICUP MY RIFLE CLEAN AND UADY, EVEN AS I AM cu:AN AND READY. WE WII.L BECOME PAll.T OF ll:ACH OTHD.,
C: "WE WII.L,
D: BEFORE GOD I SWEAR THIS CREED. MY RIFLE AND MYSELF ARE DEFENDERS OF MY COUNTRY, WE ARE THE MASTER OF OUR ENEMY. WE ARE TBE SAVIORS
C: OF MY LIFE,
D: SO BE IT, UNTIL THERE IS NO ENEMY, Btn'
C: PEACE! AMEN.
D: Sergeant Gerheim kicks Leonard' rack, Bey-you-Private Pyle,,,, "What? Yea? YES, SIRt Leonard snaps to attention in bi rack, AYE-AYE, SIR!" "What's that weapon's 1111J11e, maggot?" SIR, THE PRI~TE'S WEU'ON'S !11\ME IS CBAl!.LENE, SIR! At ease, maggot. Sergeant Gerheim grins. You are becoming one sharp recruit, Private Pyle. Moat motivated prive in JttY herd. Why, I may even allow you to serve as a rifleman in my beloved Corpa. I had you figured for a ahitbird, but you ll make a good grunt.
C: I I
D: ' I -30- Graduation day. Two hundred new Marines ■ tand tall on the parade deck, lean and t.an in immaculate khaki, their clean weapon ■ held at pert They pass in review. Joker walks right guide, tall and prcud. Cowboy carrie ■ the platoon guidon. Graduation day. No vords can express the vay ve feel. The moment the Commandant of the Marine Corps gives us the vord, we will grab the Viet Cong guerillas and the battle­ hardened North Vietnamese regulars by their acra'W?ly throats and we'll punch their fucking heads off. The C0mmanding General of Parris Is land ■ peaks into a micrcphone: Have you seen the light? 'l'he white light? 'l'he great light? 'l'he guiding light? 00 you bave the vi ■ ion?" They cheer, happy beyond 'belief. Leonard does not ■mile. -31- After graduation Sergeant Gerheim forms us into a achool circle to read out our orders. Pickett! "Yes, ■ irl" "0300 - infantry.
C: I
D: I
N: Yea, air I "1800 - eng ineera. You 90 out. and find mines. "0200 - Int.elligence. ?,Jone of you shit.bird were amart. enough fort.hat.. "Cowboy I. Yea, air. 0300 - Infant.ry. Prat.t.l" (That.' Leonard) "Yea, airl" 1nfant.ry. "t>avial" (That.' Joker) "Yea, airl" "4212 - Basic Military Journaliam Basic Milit.ary Journalism? Il0 you want. t.0 be an office pinky?" "!2, !!£1 "Are you a writ.er?" "I wrot.e for ft!'/ high school newspaper, .!i!,I" "Jesus Olrist., you're not a writ.er, you're a killer!" "A killer, ~ ,!ill" -32- When he finishes, Gerheim says, Today you people are no longer maggot.a. Today you are Marines. You re part. of a brot.herhood. From now on, unt.il the day you die, wherever you are, every Marine is your brot.her. Every Marine will be ready t.o give his life for you, and you will be ready t.0 give yours.
C: I
D: I
N: Mot of you will 90 to Vietnam. Some of you will not cCllle l:>ack. But always rememl:>er thi ■: Marines die - that' ■ 'What we're here for. But the Marine Corp live ■ forever - and that means you live forever. -33- Our last night on the Island. I draw fire watch. Joker ■tands l:>y in utility trouser ■, skivvy shirt, spit-shined coml:>at l:>oot■, and a helmet liner 'Which had l:>een painted ■ ilver. Sergeant Gerheim gives him his wristwatch and flashlight. Good night, Marines. Joker marches up and down the squad l:>ay l:>etween two perfectly aligned rows of racks. One hundred young Marines l:>reathe peacefully as they sleep - one hundred survivors from the original hundred and twenty. 'l'he aquad 'bay is Ii.a quiet as a funeral parlor at midnight. The silence is disturbed only by the soft creak-creak of l:>edspringa and an occasional cough. A recruit i talking in hi sleep. Joker at.ops. Be liataaa. A second voice. Two guy ■ must l:>e ■wapping ■ cuttlebutt. u Sergeant Gerheim hears them it'll be JZrY ass. Joker hurries towards the sound. It's Leonard. Leonard ia talking to his rifle. But there ia also another voice. A whisper, A cold, seductive moan. Leonard' a rifle is not slung en hi rack, Be' holding hia rifle, hugging it, 1 love you1 Joker ana.pa on hia flashlight. Leonard ignore him. JX>N 'T YOq UNDERSTAND? I CAN DO IT. I 'LL DO AlN'l'l!ING I Leonard' words reverberate down the squad 'bay. Racks aqueak. Someone rolls over. One recruit aita up, ru'bs his eyes. Joker watches the far end of the squad 'bay. Be wait for the light to go on inside Sergeant Gerheim' palace. Be touches Leonard's ahoulder, Bey, shut your mouth, Leonard, Sergeant Gerheim will break my 'back, Leonard ai ta up. Be looks at Joker. Be atrips o:ff his akivvy shirt and ties it around his face to 'blindfold himself. Be beg ina to field-strip his weapon. Be pulls off the 'blindfold. Bia :fingers continue to 'break down the rifle into components. 'l'hen, gently, he :fondles -ch piece. Juat look at that pretty trigger guard. Save you ever seen a more beautiful piece of metal? Be trta.rta mapping the at.eel components 'back together. ser connector a.sseml:lly ia ao beautiful, Leona.rd continues to 'ba.'b'ble as hia trained fingers reassemble the 'black metal hardware. Leona.rd reaches under his pillow and comes out with a loaded ma.9a:ine. Gently, he inserts the metal maga:ine into his weapon, into Charlene. r..eona.rd,,,where did you get those live rounds? Now a lot of guys are itting up, whispering What' happening?" to each other, Sergeant Gerheilll' light floods the far end of the quad 'bay. "OIQ,.Y, t.l!!ONAR.O, t.l!!T. s GO,. Joker nys. you're in a world of hit now, Leonard, The overhead light explode. The aquad 'bay ia washed With light. "WHAT'S THIS MICKEY MOUSE SBIT? JUST WBAT I5 TBE NAME OF JESUS H, Cim.IST AlU: YOU AN'IMA.t.S OOING I5 MY SQUAD BAY?" Sergeant Gerheim comes at Joker like a mad dog. Bi voice cuts the aquad bay in half: "MY BEAtlTY St.l!!EP BAS BEEN INTERRUPTED, I.A.DIES. YOU IOlOW WBAT THAT MEANS, YOU BEAR ME, BERD? IT MEANS TBAT ONE RECRUIT BAS VOLUNTEERED BlS YOUNG BEAltT FOR A GODDAMN BOMAN' SACRIFICE!" Leonard pounces from his rack, confronts Sergeant Gerheim. Now the whole platoon ia awake. "They all wait to aee what Sergeant Gerheim will do, confident that it will be worth watching. "Private Joker. You hitbird. Front and center. Joker moves hi a An-AYE, SIR!" Okay, you little maggot, speak. Why is Private Pyle out of his raek after lights out? Why is Private Pyle holding that -apon? Why ain't you atomping Private Pyle' guts out? sIR, it i the private' duty to report to the drill instructor that Private Pyle has a full magazine and ha locked and loaded, SIR!" Sergeant Gerheim looks at Leonard and nods. He sighs. Gunnery Sergeant Gerheim looks more than a little ridiculous in his pure white I I , skivvies and red rubber flip-flop shower shoes and hairy legs and tattooed forearms and a beer gut and a face the colour of raw beef, and, on his bald head, the green and brown Smokey the Bear campaign cover. 'l'he aenior drill instructor focuses all of hi considerable powers of intimidation into hi.a best John-Wayne-on-Suribachi voice: usten to me, Private Pyle. You will place your weapon on your rack and-" "NOi YOU CAN'T Bl'.VE SERI SHE'S MINEI YOU BEAR ME? SEE:' S MINE! I LOVE Bl!:Rl" Gunnery Sergeant Gerheim can't control himself any longer. "NOW YOU LISTEN TO ME, YOU FUCKING WORTBI.ESS LITTI.E PIECE OF SHIT. YOU Wn.L GIVE ME TBAT WEAPON OR I'M GOING TO TJ::AR YOUR !UIJ-S OFF A!ilP STUFF TEEM I:OW!il YOUR SCRAWNY LITTLE TBROAT I YOU BEAR ME, MARIN'E? I'M GOING TO PUNCH YOUR FUCKING EE:ART OUT I " Leonard aims the weapon at Sergeant Gerheim's heart, careaaes the trigger guard, then caresses the trigger Sergeant Gerheim is suddenly calm. Bi.a eyes, hi manner are thoae cf a wanderer Who has found hi heme. Se ia a man in complete control of himself and cf the world he lives in. Bi.s face is cold and beautiful aa the dark aide aurfaces. Be amiles. It is net a friendly smile, but an evil smile, as though Sergeant Gerheim were a werewolf baring its fa.nga. "Private Pyle, I'm proud-" Bang. The steel buttplate slams into Leonard's shoulder. One 7.62 millimeter, high-velocity, full metal jacket bullet punches Gunnery Sergeant Gerheimback. Be falls. They all st.are at Sergeant Gerheim. Nol:lody mcvea. Sergeant Gerheim sits up as though nothing has happened. For one second, the recruits relax. Leonard has missed. '!'hen dark l:llood squirts fr0111 a little hole in Sergeant Gerheim's chest. The red l:llood l:llosaoms intc hi ■ white skivvy shirt like a l:leautiful flower. Sergeant Gerheim' l:lug eyes are focused upon the l:llood on hi ■ chest, fascinated. Be looka up at Leonard. Be ■ quints. Then he relaxes. The werewolf -ile ia frozen on his lips. Joker ■aye, :sow, uh, Leonard, we're all l:lros, man, your l:lrothers. I'm your bunlallate, right? I-" rose your Sure, says C.Owl:)oy. "Go easy, :t.eonard. We don't want to hurt you. "Affirmative, says :h"ivate Snovball. Leonard 11.im.s his rifle at Joker a face. Joker doesn't look at the rifle. Be looks into Leonard' ■ eyes. :t.eonard ia grinning at them, the final grin that ia on the face of death, the terrible grin of the skull. 'l'he grin changes to a look of surprise and then to confusion and then tc terror aa :t.eonard'a weapon mcves up and back and then Leonard take the l:llack metal barrel into 1110uth. "NOi Hot-
C: ~I
D: Leonardi dead on the deck. The Marines alowly gather around the two bodies. The civilians will demand yet another investigation, of course. But during the investigation the recruits of Platoon 30-92 will testify that Private Pratt, while highly motivated, was a ten percenter who did not pack the gear to be a Marine in our beloved Corps. Sergeant Gerheim is still mniling. Sergeant Gerheim was a fine drill instructor. Dying, that's what we're here for, he would have said - blood makes the grass grow. If he could Sl:)eak, Gunnery Sergeant Gerhei:11 would explain to Leonard why the guns that we love don't love back. And he would say, "Well done. -34- 1968 - DA NANG, VIETNAM TBE AROMA OP ROASTED FLl!!SH IS ADMITTEDLY AN
C: ACQUIRED '!'ASTE.
D: A hundred Marines are seated in the Freedom Rill PX movie 'theatre watching John Wayne in 'l'he Green Berets. Joker and Rafter Man ■ it way down front. '!'hey wear clean uniforms. I ■pend the Vietnamese lunar New Year's Eve, 1968, at the Freedom Rill PX near Oa Nang, watching John Wayne in The Green Berets, a Rolly,.,ood soap opera about the love of guns. 'l'he re ■ t of the audience is made up of other cleanly dressed Marines and dirty Marine grunts vho are sprawled across 'their ■ eats and have propped muddy jungle boot ■ ont.o the ■eat ■ in front of 'them. '!'hey are 'bearded and look lean and mean, the way human beings look. !'-ft.er 'they've survived a long hump in the jungle, the boonies, the bad bwsh. Joker props hi ■ 'boot. ■ on the ■ eats. We vat.ch John Wayne leading the Green Beanies. John Wayne i ■ a beautiful soldier, clean-shaven, sharoly at.tired in tailored tiger-stripe jungle utilities, wearing boots that shine like black glass. In.spired by John Wayne, the fighting soldiers from the sky go hand-to-hand with all of the Victor Charlie in Southeast Asia, Be anap ■ out an order to an Oriental actor who played Mr, Sulu on star Trek, Mr, Sulu, now playing a.n Arvin officer, delivers a line with great conviction: First kill,,,all stinking Cong ,then go home. The audience of Marines roars with laughter. 'l'hi ■ is the funniest movie they have ■een in a long time, A Marine yells at Mr, Sulu, You fuckin' asshole, you kill stinking Cong. I wanna go home -35- Freedom Bill PX, I'm a combat correspondent assigned to the first Marine Division, I've been in country for six months, Rafter Man tags along behind me like a kid, Rafter Man is a combat photographer, Be has never been in the shit, Be thinks I'm one hard field Marine, Joker and Rafter Man move iri line up to a table with the Red Cross emblem on it a.nd two large coffee urns and trays of donuts. Joker looks the Red Cross girls over. They're not
C: I I
D: I
N: particularly pretty, but Vietnam duty has spoiled them. Ill Marin, the blonde nys. I'll bat cm nice hot eoff- would go real good about Joker ■mil sure would Girls, I'm Corporal Jame ■ Davis. I'm a reporter for Sea Tiger. This is Rafter Man. Be ' my photographer. Bi. aow'd you girls like to have a beer with us when you' re through here? Sorry, guys, we don't go out with enlisted men, the blonde says. we don't even go out with lieutenants, the 'brunette says. Joker laughs. aey. j uat a minute. You girl don't expect us to satisfy our lust with a donut, do you?" The girls laugh. 1 'd say a donut is all the hcle you :z:oomies rate. Outside, a ten year-old shoe shine boy collars them. Changee money? Boom-boom pictures? Dinky dow Cigarettes?. 111 have a shine, Joker says. Nearby an attractive Vietnamese prostitute starts preening herself for Rafter Man and Joker. Rafter says, Joker, I want to go out into the field. I been in country for almost three I -
C: I
D: I
N: month and all I do i take hand-shake shots at award ceremonies. A high-school girl could do my job." Joker aaya, "Rafter, you'll get yourself wasted the first day you're in the field and it'll be ury fault. Your mcm will find me after I rotate 'back to the World and l:>eat the shit out of me. That's a negative. Not getting very far with 'body language, the Vietnamese hooker tries conversation. "Bey, baby, me ■ o borny. Me 110 borny. Joker looks her over. She looks pretty good "Me so horny. Me love you too much, Bey, what you say? Number one pu11sy. Me love you too much." "Bow much?" Joker asks, "Fifteen dolla. "l/'or both of us?" "No, each you fifteen dolla, Suddenly, Rafter Man' ■ Nikon camera is cut from his neckstrap by a teenage boy who jumps on a Bonda, leaving them in the bike's backwash, staring in helpless amazement. Some White Mice stand al:'ound giggling. A beefy civilian engineer standing nearby offers a0111e advice. "You ever catch one of them li'l nigs just pinch 'em. Pinch 'em hard. Boy, they hate that.
C: I
D: -37- The weekly editorial meeting of 'Sea Tiger', the Marine Corps newspaper 'l'he De. ~ll.ll9 office of Sea Tiger, presided over by Lieutenant Lockart, seated at a lJ-shaped collection of tables. A sign en the wall behind him says in ai~-inch block letters: FIRST TO GO, LAST TO KNOW, Wl:: WILL DEFEND TO THE m:ATE OlJR RIGHT TO BE MIS:tm'OBMED. Present are, Joker, Rafter Man and six ether eoml:Jat correspondents and photographers. Lieutenant Lockart is hunched aver acme letter trays filled with typed copy, telexes, and 8 x 10 photographs. The atmosphere of the meeting ia bree:y but professional, Okay, guys, lets keep it short and sweet today, Lieutenant Lockart says. "I gotta leave fer Phu Bai in b.al f an hour. "What's up there, air?" Collins asks, Combat Media Techniques seminar, he says, sorting through a stack cf copy, okay anybody get anything new?" A pause. "There' a rum0ur going around that the Tet ceasefire' a going to be cancelled, Joker says. "Rear echelon paranoia, Lieutenant Lcc:kart says without locking up. A 'bro in intelligence says Charlie might try to pull off something big during the Tet holiday. "They say the same thing every year.
N: There' a lot of talk al:>out it, sir, Joker aays. Forget it. Tet is a combination of Christmas, lie1o1 Year and July 4th, and every zipperhead in Nam 1o1ill be banging gongs, barking at the moon and visiting his dead relatives. Anything else?" Sir, ~ camera 1o1as stolen, BAfter Man says "What camera?" s1ack body Nikon. Gook just shot by on his Bonda, air, 'Whipped that sucker right off Rafter' neck, Joker says. :t.ook at his neck. Rafter aho1o1s the red 1o1elt on his neck, "You aaw this happen?" Lieutenant Lockart asks Joker. Yes, sir. Did you try to stop him? I tried to catch bim, air, Joker says. "I encountered difficulty overtaking the Bonda on foot. All. right, Lieutenant Lockart says. When we're finished here, report it to Gunny Slocum. Lieutenant I.oc:kart picks up a telex. Ann-Margaret and entourage are due here next week. I want someone to be there on the airfield and stick W'ith her for a couple of days. eo1our me gone; Joker nys. You' re not a photographer. Klammer, you take it. "Aye-aye, sir, "Get me some good lo1o1 angle stuff Don't make it too obvious but I wanna see fur, and early morning dew. "Aye-aye, sir. "Diplomats In Pungarees Marine engineers lend a helping hand rebuilding Dong Phuc village recently d11111Aged by heavy fighting with VC forces in the area Gccd." Be pick up a photograph. "Joker, can't you come up with a better caption fer this picture cf a ■ entry deg than, 'G-r-r-r'?" "Bew about 'Bew-cw?" Joker says. "Bew 'bout thinking cf a better caption?" "Aye-aye, sir. Be picks up another ■heet cf paper. "The Lawrence Welk Shew will 90 cut en TV in twc weeks. Chili, de lOO 1o10rds en it. AFTV ll gJve you acme background stuff. "We're plugging Lawrence Welk?" "Dcn't you like serious lllllsic?" Be reads again. "WA Soldier Deserts After Reading Pamphlets a ycW'.lg North Vietnamese soldier who realized his side could net win the war deserted from his unit after reading Open Arms program pa.mphleta Gocdl" "Sir?" Joker says. "Yea?" "Why don't we drop a e0uple cf million cf these ■ ucker ■ and 90 heme?" "Tcc e:icpenaive. Be scans another story. "Oid General Mossberg really say this: '!:!.! are a nation cf high-protein meat-eating hunters, while the ether ~ just eats rice and fish heads'? Oid he really say that to The New York Ti.Jiles, The Washington Peat and Newsweek?" "You should have heard the rest. ~ieutenant ~ckart shrugs and picks up another story. Not While We're Eating. NVA learn Marines don't like to be interrupted 'While eating chow.' Joker, the enemy never runs. Be flees Patrols aren't dangerous, they're danger-filled Style style, Joker. And, Joker, where's the weenie?" sir?" The :!S!ll Joker. The :!S!ll Al.l that fire, the grunts must have hit something. Didn't see 'em, sir. "Were you actually there on that op?" Joker, I've told you we run two basic stories here. Grunts who give half their pay to buy gooks toothbrushes and deodorants - Wi=in9 Of Bearts and Minds. Okay? And ccmbat action which result in a kill - Winning the War. I don't ask much of you people but I do expect you to adhere to my editorial policy. yes, sir. You must have seen blood trails, drag marks?" "It was raining, sir. Okay, well that's why God passed the law of probability. Be tosses the pages to Joker. :ae-write it and give it a happy ending. One killed. Hake it a sapper. Or an officer. Which?" Whatever you say, Joker says. "Grunts like reading about dead officers. okay - an officer. How about a general?" Joker, maybe you'd like our guys to read the paper and feel bad. In case you didn't lcnow it, thia ia not a particularly popular war, and it' our job to report the news that the why-are-we-here civilian newsmen ignore. sir, maybe you should go out your ■ elf on aome ops. It might give you a different perspective. "Joker, I've had 11r'f ass in the gra ■ s. I didn't like it. Lota of bugs and too dangerous. Fortunately, 11r'f duties keep me in the rear where I belong. _!:! .=h!_ ~~~gear. -38- Midnight. Down in Dogpatch, the gooks are abootino off fire"10rks to celebrate the Lunar New Year. Early evening in the ISO hootch, a pre-fab wooden building thirty feet long, with screens at each end, but otherwiae open, with rolled-up canvas to 'be let down in caae of rain. At one end of the room are a number of bunk.beds. 'l'he other part has aeveral desks, and a refrigerator. On the wall are pictures of !lob Dylan, Cesar Chavez, several Playmates of the Month, Ann-Margaret, Steve McQueen on a motorcycle and Lyndon Johnson with a pencilled-in moustache. A large hand-written aign aays: WE HAVE MET THE ENEMY, AND l3E IS US. 1,. --? ., ... f~t": . .,, ' Fireworks can be seen through the screened end of the hootch, 't'he men lie on their racks and wap
T: cuttlel:>utt,
N: Joker writea in hi notebook, I add aome lines to the notebook lolhich I keeo o that when I return to hometown America in a rainbow of ca.mpai9n ribbons across my chest, brave beyond belief, the military Jesus, I will use it to write the war novel W'hich will.make Ja.mes Jones and Ernest Bemmin9way look like a couple of pussies. Joker put dO'W?I the notebook, lights up a joint and says, t got to get back into the shit. I ain't heard a shot fired in anger in -ks . I'm bored to death, Baw are we ever going to get used to being back in the World'? I mean, a day without blood is like a day without aunahine. Shit. Corporal Payback turn to Rafter Man, Joker thinks that the bad bush is down the road in the ville. Be' never been in the chit. It's herd to talk about it. Like on Hastings- Chili Vendor, a tough Chicano from East L.A., interrupts: You weren't on Operation Hastings, Payback. You weren't even in country. c:t,., eat shit and die, you fucking Spanish American. You pog e. I W'll.S there, man. I W'll.11 in the shit with the grunts, man. Joker grunts. aea stories. Clh, yeah'? Bow long you been in country, Joker'? ~uh'? . Bow much T. I. you got'? , .. - 'l. __ , . 7~ !"T ~t , . Bow much -39- Suddenly, there i a aeries of trtt111andous uploaiona a few hundred yards away. at, shit, rockeu. A sudden s"WOOOaaah Incoming I Ila ytona Dave shouts '1'hem're outgoin', aaya Chili Vendor. Daytona Dave hears the deep aliding wiatle of the other hells. That ain' outgoin' so That a.in' t outgoing, Chili Vendor aaya. 5ow what I ju' say? Daytona Dave yells as they run for a abort trench a few yards away. Rllfter Man atal!lds there, frozen. What A rocket hits the deck twenty yards away. Rllfter Man hits the ground. Joker jerks Rllfter to his feet and aboves him towards a sandbagged trench a few feet away. Corporal Payback does a atunt-man dive into the trench and lets out a acream of pain. Guys are running around in their shorts, firing their M-16' blind. arm. In the trench, Payback is moaning. Where you hit, man? Joker says x 'm not hit. I think l'. broke my fucking Then shut the fuck up, man, Daytona Dave saya. You're making me nervous. Joker peeks cautiously over the aand'baga. A few yards, in front, three Marines lie dead. Jesus Christ, I'm not ready for thia, Joker mumbles to himself. Corporal Payback is groaning. Rllfter whimpers. All around the hill orange machine-gun tracers flash up into the sky. Outgoing mortars. Outgoing artillery. Incoming rockets. All kinda of noise. Illumination rounds pop high above the rice paddiea. '1'he flares away down, glowing, auapended beneath little parachutes. Joker grabs Rafter Man and pulls him into their bootch. Get your piece. Joker picks up his M-16. Be ■naps in a magazine. Be throws a bandolier of full magazines to Rafter Man. "I..ock and load, recruit. I..ock and load. sut that's against regulations. Do it Outside, headquarters personnel from the surrounding hootches are stumbling into rifle pits on the perimeter, They crouch down in the de.mp boles in their skivvies. They stare out through tbe wire. 'l'he rockets bl.ink like flashbulbs. The flashbulbs pop. And. then.the sound of drums. well, happy fuckin' Hew Year ever:(l:>ody, Joker says. Chili Vendor says. "Ch man, why can' they jus' leave ua alone one time?" cause they ain't gettin' paid. to leave us alone, Daytona Dave says. "Sid.es, they do it 'cause they know how it fucks you all up The crumps start again somewhere outside the wire and walk in like tbe footsteps of a monster, I , The crU111ps are becoming thuds. Thud. Thud. TBUD. And then it' a whist.le and a roar.
C: SANG.
D: On the perimeter M-6O machine guns are banging and the M-79 grenade launchers are blooping and. mortar shell are thumping out. of t.he t.ubea. St.ar flares burst. al! along t.he wire, beautiful clusters of green fire. I hope they' re j uat. fucking with us, Joker says. I hope they're not. going t.o hit. the wire. I'm not. really ready fort.hi ■hit.. out.aide their bunker: :BANG, :BANG, BANG. Daytona Dave, huddled against. a wall of t.he trench, mutt.era t.o himself, Don't. worry, baby, God'll think of ■ cmething. Somewhere someone has left. on a radio playing the Rolling St.ones' Get. offa my Cloud Inside our damp cave of sandbags we huddle elbow-t.o-elbow in wet. skivvies, feeling t.he ' weiaht. of the darkness, as helpless as cavemen hiding from a monster. Each of us is waiting fort.he next. shell to nail him right on the head - the mortar is an agent of existential dOOl!I, -40- Dawn, Major Lynch' office. The mortars have stopped but sporadic rifle and machine gun fire can be heard in the distance.
C: I I
D: The Informational Services Office on the hill is a carnival with green performers - many, many of them. The lifers are all being fearless leaders. The New Guys are about to wet their panta. Everyone is talking. Major Lynch, their com:nanding officer, marches in and squares them away. zveryone will shut the fuck up," he aays. "The enemy haa used the Tet Ceasefire to ;aunch an offensive all over the country. Be has hit every major military target in Vietnam. In Saigon, the United States Embassy has been overrun by suicide squads. 10:le Sanh is standing-by to be overrun. Everybody starts talking at once. Major Lynch is calm. Be stands in the center of chaos and tries to give them orders. Nobody listens. "Everybody will shut the fuck upl" Bis words snap out like bullets from a machine gun. "Zip up those flak j acketa Put cin that helmet, Marine Load your weapons but do not put a round in the chaml:>er. Joker!" "Aye-aye, air. Major Lynch atands in front of the Marine Corps flag - blood red, with an eagle, globe, and anchor of gold, u.s.M.c. and SEMPER FIDELIS. Be taps Joker's cheat with his finger. "Joker, you will take off that damned button. Bow is it going to look if you get killed wearing a peace syml:)ol?" "Aye-aye, airl" "Get up to Phu Bai. Captain January will need all his people. I . Rafter Man ■ teps forward. sir? Could I 90 with Joker? What? Sound 0ff. 1m Compton, ■ ir. Lance Corporal Compton. Prom Photo. I want to get into the shit. Permi ■■ ion granted. And welcome aboard. The major turns, ■tarts yelling at the New Guys. Joker says, sir, I don't think that- Major Lynch turns back t0 him, irritated. You still here? Vanish, Joker, most ricky-tick. And take the Hew Guy with you. You' re responsible f0r him. The major turns away and ■tarts ■ napping out orders for the defense 0f the First Marine Division's Informational Services Office. -41- . Joker and Rafter Man look out of the open door of an s-ss helicopter. Thousands of feet below, Vietnam is a narrow strip of dried dragon shit U'OOn which God has sprinkled toy tanks and airplanes and a lot of trees, flies and Marines. Joker's ears pop. puffs out his cheeks. B.e pinches his nose and Rafter Man imitates him. '!'hey sit on bales of green rubber-impregnated canvas body bags. It's a beautiful day. I'm so happy t0 be alive and in one piece. I'm in a world of ~t, but I'm alive. And I'm not afraid. The door gunner emokes marijuana and fires hi M-60 machine gun at a farmer in the rice paddies below. Git aame git aome, harharhar. ss The door gunner has long hair, a bushy mouetache, and wears an unbuttoned Hawaiian aporta ahirt. On the Hawaiian aport ahirt are a hundred yellow hula da.ncera, The hamlet beneath us is in a free fire zone - anybody can hoot at it at any time for any reason. We -tc:h the farmer run in the ahallow water, The farmer knows only that his family needs eome rice to eat. The farmer knows only that the bullets are tearing him aoart. You guys ought to do a etory on me suntahm, the door gunner shouts above the noise of the helicopter, Why ahould we do a atory about you? cauee I'm ao fuckin good, he says, n that aJ.n't no ahit neither, Got me one hunnert 'n fifty-e'en gooks kilt'. 'N' fifty caribou, Be grins and staunches the saliva for a aecond. Them're all certified, he adds, Ever shoot any women or children? Suntahms Bow can you do that? E11.sy - you juat don't lead 'em ao much. Barharhar, Since lift-off, a bullying Arvin captain and a big Arvin eergeant have been questioning two VC prisoners seated on the floor opposite them with
C: I I
D: their backs to the open door, the wind tearing at their shirts, their arms shar,;,ly tied behind them. 'l'he Arvin captain has been concentrating on one man, a hard-core VC, who wcn't even look at him, Suddenly, the captain ■ ta.rt ■ yelling hysterically but the prisoner keeps hi ■ eye ■ lowered. The Arvin captain ■ tops shouting, breathes hard a couple of times and makes a ■harp movement with hi ■ head to the Arvin sergeant standing over the prisoner, The sergeant pushes the prisoner out of the door, a frozen look of horror on the victim' ■ face in the split second before he disappears, It happens ■ o fa.st, it takes a couple of seconds to sink in to Joker and Rafter Man. open. Joker looks at the door gunner. The door gunner winks 11.111iably at him, Joker looks at Rafter. Rafter's 1110uth is 'l'he Arvin captain ■tarts shouting at the ■ eccnd VC prisoner whc looks like he's ready tc give Uncle Be's private telephone number. Joker gestures tc Rafter Man' c11.111en. Rafter Man looks down and ■ eta his exposure. It looks like the prisoner is answering the questions but he doesn't seem to be making the Arvin captain any happier, Joker says, start shooting pictures - lets of them. Rafter ■tarts sheeting pictures. The captain doesn't like this at all and angrily gives Rafter Man the traditional no-picturs~ave-off, aey, you, Marine, No camera mel No camera met Joker gesture to Rafter to keep shooting. &umber ten! Bey, Marine - why you camera Joker leans closer and shouts to 'be heard. captain, we are officially accredited US Marine Corps coml:)at correspondents, and if you harm this prisoner we're going to file an official report of this entire incident together with our photographic evidence. You number 10 motherfucker, Me captain. Who you talking to?" "I'm talking to you, captain Zipperhead, sir, The Arvin captain looks like he' going to have a stroke, Be shouts something to the sergeant who draws his pistol but keeps it pointed at the floor. Joker shifts the M-16 across his knees. Stalemate, Then, auddenly, the Arvin captain turns and pushes the prisoner out of the door. Be turns back to ~oker and laughs, ahowing two gold teeth, The aergeant thinks this is pretty funny, too. Joker firea his M-16 on full automatic into the two men, blasting them out of the door, Joker atares at the empty door, Rafter flops down on the floor, The door gunner grins and leans over to Joker. "Ain't~ h!,g_?" Joker atares at the empty door. -42- Captain January ia i.n bia plywood cul:>icle in the back of the ISO hootch. Captain January ia the ltind of officer lolho che'W'B an wilit pipe because he thi.nka that a pipe will help to make him a father figure. Be' a playing cut-throat Monopoly with Corporal Kegan. captain January isn't Captain Queeg, but then he's not Humphrey 130gart, either, Be picks up hia little silver shoe and moves it to Baltic Avenue, tapping each property along the way. 111 buy Baltic. And twc houses. Captain January reaches for the lllhite and purple deed to Baltic Avenue. That's another monopoly, Corporal, Be positions tiny green houses on the board. Joker, I've got a big piece of slack for you. Captain January picks up a manila guard mail envelope anci pulls out a piece of paper with fancy writing on it. eongratulations, Sergeant Joker. Be hands him the paper. 'l'O ALL WBO SBAU, SEE TBESE ERf:SE:NTS, GREETING: l!CNCM YE TBAT REPOSING SPECIAL 'l'RUST AliD CONFIDENCE IN Ta:& FIDELITY OF JAMES T. DAVIS, 2306777/4312, I DO APPOINT BIM A SERGEANT IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
N: Joker stares at the piece of paper. 'l'hen he puts the order on Captain January's field desk, Nwnber ten, I mean, no way, air,
C: I.
D: Captain January atops his silver ahoe in midatride. "What did yc,u aay?" slr, I roae by aheer military genius t0 the rank of corp0ral. But I'm not a sergeant. I gueaa I'm just a anuffy at heart. "Joker, yc,u vill belay the Mickey M0uae ahit. You've got an excellent 6-month record in e0untry. You've got enough time-in-grade. You've been on enough combat ops. You rate this pt'011lotion. This ia the only war we've got. "Captain January, you know I do M'f job. I've fought t0 make the world aafe for hypocrisy. My atories are paper bullets fired into the fat black heart of C0mmunism. Let me do it as a C0rporal." "Joker, I don't think yc,u understand how important our job is. Grunts are good show buai.neaa but we make them what they are. Bistory may be written with blood and iron but it's printed with i.nk." Joker thinks for a few aeconds. "Sir, I shot two Arvins on the way up here on the helicopter. They were killing prisoners. "You ahot two Arvin on the way up here on the helicopter?" Captain January asks, looking dc,wn at the monopoly board. Yes, sir. "You're pulling me leg, right?" so, air." "You're not pulling me leg?" No, air." "Oh, damn. Captain January slaps a card onto the field desk. "Go to jail - go directly to jail - do not pass go - do not collect two hundred dollars. The captain puts his little silver shoe into jail. Captain January looks troubled. Then be looks up and says with finality, Joker, you've always had a sick sense of humour. You are definitely pulling me leg. You will be wearing chevrons indicating your proper rank next time I see you or I will definitely jump on your progrlllll, yea, air, Captain January shift into another gear, Okay, now I want you to hump up to Bue. One-<:lne is in the ■hit. Two NVA divisions have overrun the city. Charlie' finally decided to dig in and fight
N: Captain January looks at Rafter Man. "Who s this? Sound off, Ma.rine1 Rafter Man stutters. Joker says, This is Lance Corporal Compton, sir. The New Guy in Phctc. outstanding. Welcome llbcard, Marine." Thank you, air1 Joker, make sleeping sounds bere tonight and bead up tc Bue in tbe morning. We ve had reports the
T: VC have executed hundreds of
N: civilians, maybe thousands. They've uncovered several mass graves. Walter Cronkite is due bere tomorrow ao -we ll be busy. But your job is import.ant, too We need ■ cme good, clear photographs. And some bard-hitting captions. Get me photographs of indigenous civilian personnel who have been
T: executed with
N: their hands tied behind their backs, people buried alive, priests with their threats cut, dead babies - you know what I want. Then get me ■ ome good feature ■ tuff on the fighting with good body count.a. And remember: we're writing our own report card ■ in thi ■ country. Don't be afraid to give WI a few A' Yee, ■ ir. Joker, 'before you go up there you will remc:we the unauthorized peace button from your duty uniform. Aye-aye, ■ ir. And Joker Don't even photograph any naked bodies unles ■ they're mutilated. Aye-aye, ■ ir, And Joker Yes, ■ ir?
T: Get a baircut.
N: Aye-ye, ■ ir. -43- 'l'he helicopter on it' way to Bue. Joker and lla.fter Man ■ tare silent_ly out of the door. -44- 'l'he helicopter ■ ettles down at an LZ cm the outskirts of Bue. Joker and Rafter hop off. 'l'he LZ is cluttered with walking wounded, ■ tretcher cases and body bags. CQrpamen immediately ■ tart carrying canvaa atretcher ■ to the helicopter. On the ■ tretchers are bloody raga with men in ■ ide. Joker atop ■ a maater aergeant. -rop, - want to get into the ■hit. The ma.at.er aergeant i vriting en a piece of yellow paper on a clipboard. Be doean't look up, but jerk hi thuml::l r::,ver hi ahoulder. Two-five. Gaaworka a click 1:10rth. Gaaworks. OUtt~.ing. Thanks, top. The maater aergeant walks away, writing en the yellow paper. Be ignore four aku::y grunt ■ who run into the compound, each man 'holding up one corner of a poncho. On the poncho i ■ a dead Marine. The grunt ■ are ■ creaming for a corpaman and when they put the poncho down, very gently, a pool of dark blood pour out onto the concrete deck. -45- Joker and Rafter Man walk up the ahattered atreet, awed by the aheer deatruction. A huge, black pall of smoke hangs above the city in the diatance and the sound of distant firing of M-16' and AK-47' can be heard. They pa a tank, its treads blown off, a huge black hole through it ■ turret. Rafter Man photographs it. Three or four 111t>unded Marines walk towards them along aide a jeep with stretchers tied to it. They're bloody and bandaged, and their fatigues are torn. I Wbyn't you take a picture? It'll last longer,~ one of the grunts says. Rafter doea. Sane Vietnamese who have been huddled by the aide of the road are pointing towards th amoke, crying and wailing pitifully., One of the wounded grunts yells at them, aey, fuck you if you can't take a joket 'l'he wounded grunt laughs without humour and walks on A shell goes off in the distance and Rafter starts to bit the deck. Joker gives him a look and be straightens up, slightly embarrassed. -46- A squad of Arvin troops are looting a house. They are loading a truck with furniture , TV' a , stereos, clothes. They look like 'boys in their outsized helmets and uniforms Another shell goes off in the distance. Rafter Man checks hia impulse 1:.o dive for cover and looks at Joker. Remember this, Rafter Man, Joker says, Any time you can see an Arvin you are safe from Victor Charlie. That's definite. You're safe until they start yelling, 'Beaucoup VC, beaucoup VCI' and then runaway. But then you have 1:.o be careful, Arvin are always shooting at chickens, other people's pigs, and trees. Arvins will ahoot anything except transistor radios, stereos, Coca-Colas, sun glasses, s.nd the enemy.
C: I I
D: f.
C: I
D: -47- Joker and Rafter Han catch up with a big Marin lieutenant with an expensive pump ehotgun ■ lung acro ■ s his back and l)U..OLY l)EI..TA on his flak jacket, followed by hi ■ radio man. sir, we're looking fer Hotel, 2/5. I got a bro in the First Platoon. They call h.i.m CcW'bOy. Be wear ■ a Cowboy hat. 1m Cowboy's platoon commander. The I..usthog Squad' up in the platoon area up by the ga ■ works. Ycu people l/l?" sc, ■ ir . We're correspondents fer Sea Tiger. I'm Joker, air, Corporal Joker. This is Rafter Han. Glad to ■ ee you. They walk along with the big Marine. Rafter takes a few shots of the lieutenant who enjoys the attention. If you men have come looking fer a ■ tcry this is your lucky day. We ve got Condition Red here and we are definitely expecting rain." outatanding. B.ow is it going, air?" well, it looks like Charlie' got a whole di via ion i,.-,. the town, and he's du9 in pretty good. We're ■ till working this aide of the river ■ treet by ■ treet and house by house. But when we get 'em out where we can ■ ee 'em, we're getting ■ ome really decent kill- Hind if we ta9 along? welcome aboard. By the way, my name is Bayer. 11.cl:>ert H. Bayer, the third. My people call me Touchdown. I played a little ball at SHU. Ycu here to make Cctboy fmucus?" Joker laughs: Never happen Sir, we've heard th.e NVA have executed a lot of civilians. Save you come aero anything? There' a maa grave about half a klick eat, juat thia aide of the Phu cam Canal. Joker takes out a map. ean you ahov me vhere, air? -48- Joker and Rafter Man stand in a 11111all group of military and civilian officials near a large excavation containing about 40 bodies. It amells really bad. '1'he anuffies doing the digging have all tied olive-drab akivvy shirts around their faces, but casual ties due to uncontrollable puking are heavy. All of the dead people are grinning that hideous, joyless grin of those vho have heard the joke, of those vho have seen the terrible aecrets of the earth. Rafter man ahoots a roll fast and reloads. Joker aska a lieute~ant, a:,v many bodies have you got ao far, air? The lieutenant looks irritably at Joker and II.after Man. "What outfit are you men 'With? sir, ve're correpond.enta from Sea Tiger. Complete cha1tge of attitude. The lieutenant brightens up. Cti, hello. Im Corporal Joker, sir. 'ntis is 'lffY' photographer Rafter Man.
C: I
D: The lieutenant smiles. I'm Lieutenant Cleave, I'm from Hartford, Connecticut. sir, de you have a body count yet?" unofficially it' about forty. 0o we knew hew it happened, air? well, apparently the NVA came in with lists cf names - government officials, land owners, army and police officers. They went around to their houaes and politely told them to report to local achoola for political indoctrination. They shot everyone who turned up, acme cf them were 'buried alive. Joker nods and writes in his notebook with a 'ballpoint pen.
C: MA.1UNE1.
D: Joker looks up and sees a poge Army colonel marching up to face him. The pose colonel has a classic granite jaw. Bis jungle utilities are razer-creased, starched to the consistency cf green armour. Joker stands to attention. Corporal, the Army colonel says Don t you know how to execute a hand salute?" Yes, airl" Joker aays. I hold the salute until the colonel returns it, plus a couple cf seconds extra, to identify the colonel as an officer to any snipers in the area. Marine, the colonel says. "What is that en your body a=cur?" sir?" That thing. You mean thi~ 'button, air?"
C: I I I
D: "What ia it?" the colonel says. "A peace symbol, air. Where did you get it?" Joker thinks for a couple of seconds. A liberal gave it to me, air, Joker says, keeping a serious face. 'l'he colonel jal:)a Joker's button with a forefinger 11.!ld gives him a fairly decent Polished Glare. Bia blue eyes sparkle. 'l'hat'a right, son, act innocent. But I~ what that button means. Yea, air I It's a ban-the-bomb propaganda button. Admit itt 5o, air. What ia that you've got written cm your helmet?" "Born 'l'o Kill?" "You've written 'Born to Kill' on your helmet. "Yea, air. "Why did you do that?" AI don't know, air. Everyone writes things on their helmets. "You write 'Born to Kill' on your helmet and you wear a peace button. What is that supposed to be, some kind of sick joke?" "Ho, air. "Well, what ia it supposed to mean? "I don't know, air. "Answer that question, corporal, or you'll be atll.!lding tall before the man. well, air, Joker says with exaggerated thoughtfulness, "I suppose I was trying to
C: I I
D: suggest aomething about the duality of men. "The what?" "'l'he dual nature of man? , You know, air, the Jungian thing about aggression and xenophobia on one hand, and altruiam and cooperation on the other?" There i a fairly considerable mouth-breathing pauae from the colonel. "Whoae aide are you on, ■ on?" "Our aide, air, "MAllINEI Yea, air. Don't you love your country?" Yes, I do, air. '!'hen how about getting with the progrll.lll? Why don't you jump on the team and come in for the 'big win?" Joker ■ till lll&ll&ges to keep a atraight face. "I'm certainly ready to do that, sir, "Confess corporal, confess that you want peace. "I confeas, air, The colonel lean ■ closer and lowers his voice, son, we've all got to keep our heeds until this peace cra:e blows over. Joker makes a aerious face to consider the full implications of this statement. "Yes, air, The poge colonel tries to think of aomething more inspiring to aay, but he h.asn' t got it. So he aays: "You can't wear that button, Marine, It's against regulations, Remove it immediately. Joker is aaved from further difficulty by aeveral mortar rounds that come in about SO yards away, SANGI SANGI BANG!, everyone dives for I.
N: famous. Thi i Alice,,.(nod),.,Conlon (nod) Stutten (wave), Hand Job . ,(holds out his hand), for Christ ake don't hake hands with him, (iaughter) Coc Jay. "You can trust.!! Coe Jay ays. "I got magic handa. :coc Jay want.a to ave all the wounded, even thoe killed and buried months ago. Every night dead Marines beg him t.o come t.o their graves. Coe Jay la ughs "And this is our quad leader, Crazy Earl." Crazy Earl is armed with an M-l6 and a Red Ryder BB gun. Crazy Earl looks at Joker. There is no expression on hi.a face. "There it is, he ays. "They call me Crazy Earl. Gooks love me until I blow them away. Then they don't love me anymore. A big Marine and a ■mall Marine double-time up the road carrying a large cardboard box between them. The big Marine is Animal Mother. The small Marine is T,B.E. !lock, They drop the box and reach inside. "Resupply. Resupply. Get your red-hot bennies. Scarf it up, T.B.E Rock says. Be throws plastic bags to each of the men. Thi is T.B.E. Rock. B.e wears that rock around his neck so when the dinkll "zap him they'll know who he is. T.B,E. !lock pulls out a rawhide cord and shova Joker his rock, a quartz crystal mounted in brass. "I'll live forever. I'm the !lock." Collll:>oy points to the big marine, This is Animal Mother. Be' hard. Animal Mother has a belt of machine-gun bullets crisscrossing his chest, Be picks his nose and says to Joker, "You better believe it.
C: I
D: c0ver, In the ensuing sh0uting and confuai0n, Rafter Man and J0ker take 0ff, Joker and Rafter Man find Cowl:>0y'a squad resting in the rul:>ble 0f a dem0lished building, Cow0y gets to hia feet and says, Bely shit, it's the Joker, Cowb0y and J0ker grab each 0ther and wrestle and. punch and pound each 0ther 0n the back. They say, Bey, y0u 0ld m0ther-fucker, Bow y0u been? What's happening? Been getting any? Only y0ur sister. Well, better 'tfrf sister than m'J mom, al th0ugh 1110m' s not bad. Bey, Joker, I was hoping I'd never see you again, you piece 0f shit. J0ker laughs, "Cowl:>0y, you l00k real mean. If I didn't know that y0u 're a b0rn pc,g e I 'd be scared." Bey, we' re the Lusthog squad - we are lifetakers and heartbreakers. We fill them full of lead. Y0u ah0uld have been with ua yesterday we wasted a0 many it wasn't even funny, J0ker says, Thia is Rafter Man, Be's n0t a walking camera at0re, Be's a ph0t09rapher. Lai dai, bro m, pleased to meet you, Rafter says. 'l'he rest of the squad stare at J0ker and Rafter Man the way people do in a train atati0n. Cowoy says to the squad, Bey, this is J0ker, m'J br0 from the Island, and this is Rafter Man, They're from Sea Tiger. They'll make you
C: I
D: I
N: Thia ia rrt'/ bro, Joker and thia ia Rafter Man. They're from Sea Tiger. You a photographer? Animal Mother aaya to Joker. Joker ■hake ■ hi head. *I'm a combat correspondent. Animal Mother ■miles acornfully, You aeen much combat? Bey, don't fuck with me, Joker aays. *I got twice a many operations as any grunt in Eye C::Orpa . C::Owboy aaya, Bey, c0111e on broa, ■ it down, ■ it and ■hare. Animal Mother aita down, croaa-legged. Man, I almoat got me some eatin' pussy. T.B.E. Rock aays, That's affi:rmative. Mother was chasing a little gook girl with his dick ha.nging out. Lieutenant Touchdown lights a small block of C-4 explosive to make hot chocolate. Bow old was ■he? Maybe twelve or thirteen, aays Animal Mother. Mother, you know what I told you about thatl* Animal Mother grins, ■ pita: If ahe'a old enough to bleed, ■he' old enough to butcher. Animal Mother, listen ap, Lieutenant Touchdown aays. You harass one more little girl and I'm going to put rrry ail ver bar in rrry pocket and you and I are going to throw aome hands. Animal Mother grunts, ■ pita, picks up a bottle of tiger piss. Be books a tooth into the
C: I. I
D: metal cap and forces the bottle up. The cap pops off. Cowboy, you remember when we was ■ et up in that L-ahaped ambush up by !Che Sanh and blew away that !,TVA rifle squad? You remember that little gook bitch that was guiding them? She was a lot younger than the one I saw today. Be takes a ■ wallow. 1 didn't get to fuck that one either. But that' ■ okay. That's okay. I shot her motherfucking face off. Be looks at Joker and grins. That's affirmative, pose. I shot her motherfucking face off. Be burps in Joker's face. Joker says, Bey, Animal fucker. Bew come you think you're so bad?" Animal Mother looks surprised. aey, motherfucker, you want me to tear you a new asshole? 0n1y after you eat the peanuts out of my ■hit. "Whoa, now just whoa, Cowboy says If there' a one thing I can't stand it' a bad language. !l'ow violence, that's something else. I mean if you feel you got to blow Animal Mother away, that' a outstanding. But a0me other time, Joker, 'cause - need him right now. Alice, a big black marine says, You might not believe it but under fire Animal Mother is one of the finest human being in the world. All he needs is 110111eone to throw hand grenades at him for the rest of his life. aey, jungle bunny, Animal Mother says. Thank god for the sickle cell, huh?" Rafter Man starts taking some pictures of the squad. Crazy Earl puts his arm across the
C: I
D: ■boulder ■ of the man next to him. The man baa a bu ■h cover pulled down over his face and a beer in hi ■ hand. aey photographer, you want a good picture? Ber man, take thi ■ Thi ■ i ■ ffl'/ bro, ■ay■ Crazy Earl, removing the bu■h cover from the man' face. Thi ■ i ■ hi ■ party. Be i.s the gue ■ t of ho1:10ur. You ■ ee, today i ■ hi ■ birthday. The man next to <:;-11.:y Earl i ■ 11. dead man, a North Viet.name ■ e corporal, a clean-cut Asian kid about ■ even.teen year ■ old with ink-black hair, cropped abort. Rafter Man looks-at Joker. Then he ■tarts taking ■hots with his Nikon. Crazy Earl hugs the North Vietname ■ e corporal. Be grins I love the little conmie ~starda, ml!I.D.. I really do. They're as hard as ■ lant-yed drill instructors. They arehighly motivated individuals. Bey, take a couple like thi Crazy Earl poses, Rafter keeps ■hooting Grunts \lnderstand grunts. These are great days we are living, bros. We are jolly green giants, Wll.lking the earth with guns. The people we waated here today are the finest individual ■ we will ever know. When we rotate 'back to the World we' re gonna mis ■ having aanebody &round who's worth shooting. Bell, it'd be okay with me if he came to America and married ffl'/ ■ iater. Bow 'bout me, Craze? Alice, the black Marine, says. eould I marry your ■ ister? A few men laugh. Donlon is talking on the handset. sir, the CO wants the actual.
C: I
D: Donlon gives the handset to Touchdoloffl. The Lieutena-nt talks to Del ta Six, the commanding officer of Delta 2-5. Huml:ler ten. Just when we were ecarfing up ■ ome good benniea, Cra:z:y Earl says .Lieutenant Touchdown ■ tends up and ■ tarts putting on bi gear. Hoving, rich kids. Saddle up in five Craze, get your people on their feet. Moving. Hoving. You two with us today? Cra:z:y Earls asks. Yeah, Joker says. Good. 'rhat makes fourteen. l -so-,
N: The platoon moves Indian-file along both ■ ides of the road, twenty yards 'between each man. The lines pop and ■ nick as cocking levers are ■ napped back and bolts sent heme, c:haml:>ering rounds. Safeties are clicked off. Selector ■witches are thumbed to the full automatic position. Those Marines armed with H-14' fix bayonets. Machine suns ■ tart. typing our history. First our suns, then theirs. Snipers fire a round here and there, ■ ishtins us in. Somebody ■ tarts singing: M.I.c .... K.E.Y .... M.o.u.s.E. Thiiiy all i.ng : So come along and ■ ing our ■one; And join our fam-i-ly M.I.c .. ~.z.Y .... M.o.o.s.z. Mickey Mou ■ e, Mickey Mou ■ e The machine guns are exchanging a steady fire now, like old friends having a conversation. Thumps and thuds puncture the rhythm of the bullets. '?he platoon moves into a line abreast formation. The sni~ers zero in on us. Each shot becomes a word ■ poken by death. Death is talking to us; Death wants to tell us a funny secret. We may not like death but death likes us. Joker ■ays out loud: you and me, God - right?" Black roses of smoke bloom in the distance. Shota of the platoon =ossing open ground. I put out the word to every part of my body. Dear Feet, tiptoe through the tulips. Balls, hang in there. Leers, don't do any John Waynes. ~ 'body is serviceable. I intend to maintain my body in the excellent condition in which it was issued. I that you, John Wayne? Is this me? Joker aaya aloud.. aey, atart the cameras, Cowboy says. Thia i Vietnam, the movie. Joker can be Paul Newman. I'll be a horae, "Yeah. Crazy Earl aays, can I be Gabby Bayes? 'l'he Rock can be a rock, aaya Donlon, the rad.i0111an. Be ia chewing bubble-.;um and popping bubbles. Alice aays, I"ll be Ann-Margaret. Animal Mother can be a rabid buffalo, aaya Stutten, honcho of the third fire team. If this was real I'd be scared., Joker says The enemy are assaulted. by werewolf laughter. "Who'll be the Indians? The little enemy folks audition for the part, machine-gun bullets rip across a wall to atarboard. "You follow me, !iew Guy, T. B. E Rock aays to Rafter Han, smiling, ' cause I'm a lucky guy. T. B. E. Rock starts sing i.ng: Lucky lucky lucky me, I'm a lucky aon-of-a-.;un. I work eight hours, "I aleep eight hours, I leave eight hours for fun. A mortar explodes ten feet in :front of him. Small bits of metal, brains and blood spatter over Rafter Han as T.B.E. Bock stops the full charge of ahrapnel.
C: I
D: Hore mortar rounds explode ahead of them, Doa Jay dashes to T,H,E, Roc:k but he is dead. "Je ■ us Christ, Rafter Man ■ays. "The Rock i ■ all fucked up. 'l'h men keep running A B-40 rocket explodes. Band. Job laughs, "Hey, I pi ■ aed all ewer my ■ elf," But he looks down and see' ■ he's ■ caked in blood from his ■tomach to his knees. A flicker of comprehension, as he falls dead. Cra:y Earl starts whooping a.'ld hollering and shootin;; hi ■ .Red Ryder - BB gun. A sniper' a bullet drills him right through his head. The platoon attacking. -s2- reaches the ruins they are 0:l'Wtloy, Alice and Joker rush forward and flatten themselves against the building, each by a window. They ■ tart throwing grenades in. Joker takes ■ome fire but. ian't hit. They kick in the door and run in, firing. Lieutenant Touchdown is killed by a g~enade. Animal Mother ruahes in with his M-60, spraying wildly. Host of the NVA inside are dead. There are some ■hort, ■harp exchanges of aut0111&tic fire and grenades with the few remaining IITVA die-hards who are all killed, -53- The firing has all but stopped. The Lusthog squad has taken up defensive positions in the factory. Some civilians start t0 appear, smiling shrugging , trying t0 get back t0 their homes The Marines try to menace them away at rifle point, shouting, oi, di, di, you sorry-ass motherfuckers, 90 on, get the hell away from herel" and the refugees smile, half lxlwing, and flit up the shattered streets. 00n't those zipperheads know there's a war on?" A little boy of about ten comes up t0 the squad. Be is laughing and moving his head from aide t0 side in a fu=y way. The fierceness in his eyes should tell everyone what it is, but it doesn't occur to most 0f the grunts that a Vietnamese child can be driven mad too, and 'by the time they understand it the boy is going for their eyes and tearing at their fatigues, spooking everyone, putting everyone really uptight, until Alice grabs him from 'behind and holds his arms. cmon, poor li'l baby, 'fore 0ne a these grunt mothers shoots you, he says and carries the boy 'back t0 where the corpsmen are. -54- later, outside the ruined factory, the Lusthog squad stand looking at the :bodies of Lieutenant Touchdown, Crazy Earl, T.B.E. Rock and Band Job, which have :been laid out on the ground in a straight row. Helicopters land nearl:ly to carry away the wounded. Near:by, two Graves Registration men are struggling with a :body trying to get it into a 'body bag. Shit, this is a gook! What'd they :bring him here for?" Look, man, he"s got on our uniform." 1 don't give a fuck, that ain't no American, that's a fucking gook!" "Wait a minute," the other one says. "Maybe it's a spade Joker stands over Lieutenant Touchdown's :body. Dead, Lieutenant Touchdown didn't look like an officer anymore. Be was just another meatbag with a hole in it. My reaction was curiosity. I wondered what the rounds felt like as they entered his :body, what his last thought was, what his last sound was et the moment of impact. I marvelled at the ultimate power of death. I never felt so alive. Donlon steps up. "We're mean Marines, sir. Be hurries away, fumbling with the handset. I v. Alice gently kicks Lieutenant Touchdown's corpse. "Go easy, bro. Animal Mother ays quietly, "Better you than me, man. Rafter Man ays, well, at least he died for a good cause. "Which cause was that?" Animal Mother says. Democracy ? " Animal Mother ays, "Flush out your head gear, New Guy. You think we waste gooks for democracy? Don't kid yourself; this is a slaughter, and if I'm gonna get m:y balls shot off for a word I get to pick m:y own word and m:y word is poontang. No one seems interested in arguing with him, Cowl:>oy looks down at Band Job. It's a tough break for Band Job, he was just set to get a medical discharge. "What was the matter with him?" Joker asks. "Be was jerkin' off ten times a day. Joker laughs. "That's no shit, ays Alice. "At leas' ten times a day. It was disgustin'," "Last week," Cowboy ays, "he was sent down to Danang to see the Navy psychiatrist there, and the crazy fucker starts jerkin' off in the waiting room. Instant Section Eight. Be was just waiting for his papers to clear division. Sergeant Murphy comes up to them. "Okay, gather 'round. Gather 'round ,I'm acting platoon leader until they can send up an officer. Cowboy's first-squad leader to replace Craze. Okay, Cowboy?" Cowoy nods, "Sure." He is pleased. Joker slaps him on the back. "I'll follow you anywhere, scumbag. -ss- Twilight in the rubble of the ruined factory. Later, the c01ll);?any is set in £or the night. Listening posts are strung out SO yards on all sides, claymore mines are set in place, and artillery is registered in on likely enemy approaches. A few shots to illustrate this. A CBS camera crew turns up, asking how we feel about maintaining the equilibrium of the Dingdong by containing the ever encroaching Doodah, and getting the star-struck grunts to strike combat-marine poses, pretending to be what they are. A few shots to illustrate this - interviews, combat-poses. The CBS cameraman gives Alice direction. "Okay, wait until I say action and then fire off a few shots. Wisecracks from the Lusthog squad. Alice nods, "Okay. "Turnover - Hue city fire fight - take one Okay, action. Alice fires off a few shots, looks out, a bit over-intently, to see what he's hit, then he fires off a few more shots, 01tay, cut it, s.ow was that? Great. Lets try just one more. Fire off a whole clip on automatic and when you finish, ■hout sC111ething at. them, What should I say?" It doesn't matter. Just shout something like you're really mad. Okay? 111 try. More wise cracks from the squad. Okay, quiet, guys ,turn over. Bue city - fire fight, take 2,.,0kay, action. Alice blasts off a clip and hesitates, stuck for something to say. Go 'head, shoutl" Alice hesitates, then shouts, Bey .. gook get offa rrry cloud! Everyone breaks up. -56- Later, the CBS crew have gone. The men are heating and eating c-ntions. Joker is writing in his notebook. Conlon and Stutt.en are looking at a glossy, car brochure, It's been proven, man, I'm tellin' you. You put a Ford engine in a Chevvy, and a Chevvy engine in a Ford, and they both go faster,
C: IJ
D: 1i f, Alice is hunched over his radio. 'Let's talk about tracers,' the radio announcer says. 'Sure, they' re fun to ■hoot, They light up the ■kyl But did you know that tracers leave deposits on your barrel? Deposits than often lead to malfunctions alld even jamming ' Bey, Alice, turn that fuckin' thing off," "Right after Sporta, Alice ■ ays, cleaning his face with some Wash 'n I>ri's. Donlon looks up from the car brochure. I hope we ■tay here. This street fighting is decent duty. We can ■ ee them here. The DJ plays "The Girl with the Faraway Eyes" by the Stones. "Bey, we sure as hell lalocked the living shit out this place today, didn't we?" Stutten says quietly. "Yeah. Godzilla never drew that kind of fire, Alice says. "It's a damned shame, all them poor people though, a.1.1 them nice looking houses, they even had a Shell station there, Rafter Man says. we said we were going to boni.b then 'back to the Stone Age alld we do llOt lie. Daddy DA is playing with a yo-yo. Be s doing 'Square the Circle', 'Rollercoaster' and 'Kiss the Cat' when Sergeant Murphy walks up to him. "What the fuck do you think you're doin'?" Be grabs the yo-yo from Daddy DA' s hand and throws it outside. "This isn't a playground. You're a fucking Marine. Act like one!" -57- They hear the sound of a 1110torbike approaching. Oh man, I don't believe this, Co'Wboy says. A young Arvin soldier with a girl riding the pillion comes up the road and stops. The girl get off, brushes her hair back al:ld smiles. She is attractively dressed in a blo\lBe and akin-tight pants. She is pretty. Some of the squad get to their feet and gather aroul:ld them. aey, you, the Arvin says. You wan' number one fuckey? 1:1ey, any you guys want number one fuckey? Co'Wboy says. Laughter and affirmative ad lills. Me want suckey, Donlon says. Some laughter. Fuckey, suckey, a1110ke cigarette in pussy. Everything you wan, the Arvin says without crackiDg a smile. More laughter. How much?" Co'Wboy says. Ten dolla, the Arvin says. For all of us?" Ten dolla each, the Arvin says. Five dollars for each. Me love you good, the girl says. Five dollars, Co'Wboy says firml.y. Okay five dolla. "Eley, she ain't bad lookin'," Alice, the big black marine, says moving closer to her. il A chorus of complaints from the men. Cowoy says, "Bey, Mother, we'll draw lots.
N: I 11 be right back, Animal Mother aa ys "I'll skip the foreplay. -ss- Night in the factory. The squad is peering into the darkness, safeties off, on a maximum alert. During the night the LP'a report hearing movement. The Captain decides to have a Mad Minute which means that on a signal we blast away for exactly one minute, and on another signal, we stop 11.lld listen for movement or groans. The signal is given and the men fire on full-auto, into the blackness. Then, on a signal, they abruptly stop. Total silence. We're absolutely deafened by the terrific noise but we strain to listen for any suspicious sounds. Suddenly the nerve wracking silence is broken by a terrific fart - vrrruumppll Everyone breaks up laughing. The girl looks at Alice and says something to the Arvin, There is a brief disagreement betveen them 'Which ends with the girl shaking her head co, several times. Cowboy says, What's the problem? She say, no b00m-b00111 vith soul brother. The squad laughs. What the mother~ I? Alice says . Soul 'brothers too boo-coo, the ArVin says. "Too boo-coo. What's he talkin' about?" "I think they're sayin' that you coloured boys pack too much meat, Co"11:>oy says. Laughter. "Shit, Alice says. These fuckin' whores got pussies on 'em like the Grand Canyon. What the fuck they sayin'?" The Arvin shakes bis bead. "Too boo-coo. "Well I'll tell you ~ Alice says. "Just look at this, mother fucker. Be unbuttons his fatigue pants and whips it out. "That ain't no big thing. It's magnificent, but it sure as shit ain't that big. ~ The men laugh. The girl has a look and says something to the Arvin. The Arvin says, "Okay, soul brotha'. You okay. Laughter and wisecracks from the squad. "AJ.l right, Alice says. What's the batting order?" Rafter Man says. An.ilnal Mother pushes bis way in. "If I gotta pay for it, I'm goin' first, be says, grabbing the girl and walking away vi th her.
C: I
D: i...~ ' 1J
C: I)
D: -59- Intelligence passed the word down that the m had pulled out of our area during the night to positions across the river. our squad is walking point for the platoon to find out if that's true. The Lusthog squad files pa.st a skull, charred black, mounted on a stake in the kill :one, on which 80llleone has stuck some old black felt Mousketeer ears. Someone has nailed a scrap of ammo crate on a tree with crude letters: ALL HOPE ABANDON, YE WHO
C: ENTER HERE.
D: Resupply choppers wop-1110p down to earth behind them like monster grasshoppers. They lock and load. The squad comes to the last two-man listening post. Cowboy waves his hand and Alice ta.kes the point. All clear, says Alice with a hand signal. Cowboy waves his hand and they mc,ve slowly along the deserted street, ten yards apart, half the squad hugging the walls on each side of the street, peering into doorways and windows and keeping an eye on the roof tops. Cowboy jabs his gray Marine-issue glasses with his forefinger. In the gray glasses Cowboy does not look like a killer, but like a reporter for a high school newspaper, which he was, less than a year ago. 1 I l.1 ' f 1\ II i ' . , The clink of their gear as they ...alk sounds loud in the unnatural silence. Cowboy reminds them to maintain ten yards between each man. Frequently he stops to check his compass and acetate map. Rafter Man changes his lens and starts taking shots of the patrol. The zip, zip of his shutter seems loud in the ominous quiet. -60- Shots of the patrol in different streets, separated by dissolves. Shot of Joker. Mv thoughts begin to drift into the things I will do after I rotate back to the World, which inevitably means erect-nipple wet dreams of Mary Jane Rottencrotch and the Great Bomecominq Fuck Fantasy. The patrol continues slowly up another street. Bold. Alice raises his right hand. The squad stops. Cowboy flexes the fingers of his right hand as though cupping a breast. Booby trap? Alice shrugs, Just cool it, man. They move off again.
C: I
D: Alice really understands the shrewd race of meri we are fighting - hard soldiers, strange, diminutive phantoms with iron insides, brass 'balls, incredible courage, and no scruples at all. 'l'hey look ■ mall, but they fight tall, and their bullets are the same size as ours. Joker moves very carefully, ■ taying close to the buildings. We live by the law of the jungle, which is that more marines go in than come out. 'l'here it is. -61- Alice freezes. Eis right hand closes into a fist: Danger. All of Alice's senses open up. Be waits Invisible birds scatter from tree to tree. Alice grins, and lifts his ~-79 grenade launcher to his shoulder. The "blooper" is like a toy shotgun, c:cmically small. Adrenaline gives them a high. Alice shrugs, lowers his weapon, gives them his usual thumbs-up, all clear: as if to say, I'm o cool that even my errors are correct. Cowboy's right hand slices the air again, and they all shift gear to less painful positions and move out, gruml:)ling, bitching. Alice hesitates. In rows of loops across the front of his vest hang two dozen M-79 grenade rounds.
C: I\ A
D: ii ,, On Animal Mother' s back pack is the warning : IF YOU, CAN READ THIS YOUR TOO CLOSE." Cowboy waves his hand and the .squad moves out. Animal Mother tells Rafter Mall, Don't follov me t00 close, liev Guy. If you step on a mine I don't want to get fucked up. Rafter falls back a few paces. Frcm some~ere, frcm everywhere, an al.most inaudible snap. A bird goes insane. One bird sputters overhead. Alice stands rigid and listens. Be raises his right hand and closes it into a fiat. Danger. Cowboy thinks about it. Then he says, "Bit it . Wavering forms crumple to '!!he deck as Cowboy's order is echoed frcm man to man back down the trail. Joker says to Cowboy, "Bro, I was hoping a sniper would ding me so I'd have an excuse to fall down. I mean, I think I'm going to hate this movie . .. Cowboy is watching Alice. "Cut the shit, Joker. Kneeling, Alice studies the empty street. Alice .studies the street for a long time. "It's not right, bro, he says just above a vhisper. Cowboy studies the .street. "We got to 1110Ve, Midnight. The city is c:minously silent except for the squeak-squeak of a canteen being unscrewed. Alice wipes the sweat from his eyes, and says, mostly to himself, "All I want to do ia make ij I,
C: I}
D: \ l
C: I)
D: it back to the hill 110 I can smoke about one ton of dope. I wait.,,I heard something! Silence. A bird, says Cowboy. 0r a branch falling. Alice shakes his head. Maybe. Maybe. Cowboy' voice is stern: You're paranoid, Midnight. The gooks have pulled out. We got to keep moving. Donlon crawls over to Cowboy, handset at his ear, sey, Lone Ranger, the old man wants a report on our position, "Let's move, Midnight. I mean it. Alice rolls his eyes. Put a nigger behind the trigger. Alice takes one step forward, then hesitates. I can remember when I've had more fun. Joker says in his John Wayne voice: viet Nam is giving war a bad name," Cowboy says, :everybody shut the fuck up. Alice shrugs, mumbles, "Feets, get movin' , and takes another step forward. Cowboy, m' man, it ain't easy being the black Errol Flynn, you know. Alice, the point man, moves out. Be ditty-bops across an intersection.
C: BANG!
D: The crack of an SKS sniper's carbine jolts Alice into a rigid position of attention. Bis mouth opens. Be turns to speak. Bis eyes cry out. Alice falls. s:tT IT! Falling forward - now "Oh, no Rubble. Pavement. "ALICE! "What ?" Damp. Bleeding elbows. "MIDNIGBT l Looking, not seeing, looking "Oh-oh Shit City
N: Waiting. Waiting. Bey, man " Silence. My guts melt.
C: "ALICE!
D: Alice is lying in the middle of the intersection, about 35 yards away. Re doesn't move. Joker takes cover behind aome rubble. I curl u-o and try to make myself small and I think how wonderful it would be if I could crawl up into my own asshole and just disa-o-oear and I think: I'm glad it's him and not me. "Jµ.ICEl Alice, the point man, is down on the pavement. Bis big black hands are locked around his right thigh. :Slood. Cowboy says, 0amn. Be shoves his Stetson to the back of bis head and jabs at bis glasses with his index finger. Alice is trying to crawl to =ver. Alice extends his hand. l3ANGl 1, Alice's hand is knocked down. Be lifts it again slowly. Alice's right forefinger is missing. "Oh, no not , Animal Mother opens fire. Bigh....,elocity machine-.;un bullets clip, chop, and ricochet along the deserted street, snapping into the masonry with rhythmic precision. Rafter opens up with his M-16 and then switches to his Nikon. Lance Corpora~ Stutten fires an M-79 a.nd the grenade bursts, against a wall. I see a strange shadow in a doorway so I throw a few rounds in there with my grease gun. But it's Maggie's drawers. There's nothing to shoot at. :Daddy D,A. pops a £rag and lobs it in. Everybody is blazing away at an em~ty street. Cowboy screams into the jarring thud: "OKAY, OKAY E:VERYBODY, FUCKING COOL IT," Everyone stops firing - everyone except Animal Mother, Bis weapon continues to spill hot brass and black metal links until the belt runs out. "We gotta kill that cocksucker!" says Animal Mother. cooL IT!" says Cowboy. "Where did it come from? Did anyone see it?" No one says anything, then Animal Mother says. "Be's out there in front of us. "Where?" Animal doesn't know. Cowboy grabs the radio handset from Donlon. Delta Actual, this is Del ta One. This is Del ta Actual, says the insec:t voic:e of the Platoon c:omnander from inside the handset. :oe1ta Actual, we are rec:eiving enemy sniper fire. I have one Whiskey, India, Alpha. Cowboy looks at his map. My position, up three over one. A:i.muth 105 degrees, bac:k 210 degrees. R,Qger, c:opy that, Delta One. Request a dust-off and a tank. R,Qger, c:opy that, Delta One, but what is tank for? :oe1ta Actual, possible strong enemy force oc:c:upying buildings in front of us, and sniper ju.st trying to suc:k us in. Reger, c:opy that, Delta One.
C: BA.NG!
D: A rifle bullet snaps through Donlon's radio. The impac:t of the bullet flips Donlon onto his bac:k. Cowboy dives for c:over. Donlon struggles like an overturned turtle. Joker c:rawls on his hands and knees. Be grabs Donlon's rifle belt. Eie drags him behind ■ ome c:over. Donlon ■wallows air. aeauc:oup thanks, bro . Doc Jay c:omes scrambling up on all fours like 11 bear in a hurry. Cowboy says, Alic:e is in the open. We c:an' t reach him. Bullshit, Animal Mother says.
C: BANGI
D: Cowboy rolls over. I'm okay. I'm okay. "Be hit Alice again!"
C: I*
D: Al.ice moves, groans. "It hurts it hurts .. " '!'here's a dark hole through the boot on Al.ice's left foot. Al.ice laughs, grins, grits his teeth. Im ahort Ooc Jay stands up. Cowboy grabs him and pulls him do'Wtl. "You cra:y?" But Ooc Jay wrestles free. He unhooks the Unit One medical kit from his web belt and drops the rest of his gear. Cowboy looks sick. Don' t try it , bro. 'l'ha t sniper does not miss "I'm the corpsman, says Doc Jay. "Not you," and before Cowboy can react, Ooc Jay is on his feet and running. Be runs at a crouch, :ig:agging He hits the intersection.
C: BANGI
D: Doc Jay stumbles, falls, The Doc's left thigh has been tern open. Jagged bone protrudes. The Doc tries to push himself forward with his good leg. Cowboy pops a lllll0ke grenade, lobs it in. "We've got to do something Green 11m0ke pours from Cowboy's smoke grenade, obscuring the street. Cowboy starts to tell us what to do. But he can't make up his mind. 'l'hen he says, "'l'he sniper's trying to suck us in. Wants the whole squad, one at a time. The squad looks around to Cowboy, ready to do or die. "Donlon get on the radio and see what's happening about that tank. "I can't, the radio's dead." I' '
C: I
D: "I saw some tanks on the way up," Cowboy says. "Double time back there and get something moving. "Okay, Donlon takes off down the ■ treet in little zig-zag rushes. Rafter Man is watching with wild eyes, his weapon held at port. arms. Animal Mother's bloodshot eyes scan the ■ treet for muzzle flashes, movement, any ■ ign of life, Lance Corporal Stutten and the rest of the squad watch ■ ilently - they are waiting for orders, "Spread out, both aides of the ■ treet, and wait for the tank," Cowboy says quietly, The squad slowly obeys the order. At the intersection, Doc Jay manages to stand up, balances himself on his good leg, Be bends over and hooks Alice under the armpit with his forearm, tries to lift him, "You're okay, Alice. No sweat, I'm Doc Jay. You can trust me. I got magic hands
C: BANG!
D: Doc Jay collapses. Now his left foot is a bloody lump, Be waits for the last bullet. When the last bullet doesn't come he sits up, pulls Alice across his lap. The Doc fumbles in his Unit One, takes out a Syrette, gives Alice a hit of Morphine. The squad opens fire again, shooting at shadows. Using his teeth, Doc Jay tears the waxy brown wrappers off three compress bandages. The Doc ties the bandages around Alice's wound, Alice I ,,
N: groans, says something we can't hear. Doc Jay uses his shirttail to wipe sweat from Alice's forehead then pulls out a piece of rubber tubing he uses for tourniquets
C: BANG.
D: Doc Jay's right hand is shattered. The Doc tries to move his fingers. Be can't. Animal says, Bow long are we going to sit on our asses?" we'll move up with the armour, Cowboy says ■when the fuck is that? Soon. Alice and Doc can't wait anymore!" we've got no choice. The sniper is just sucking us in. we can do it if we al.l go at once, The sniper'll have too many targets. "That might be what they're waiting for. Bow do you know there's only one sniper?" Alice and Doc Jay are out there gettin' shot to shit! "I don'-t like the situation any more than you do but we have to accept it. Mother says, we can go for Alice and Doc, give the sniper too many targets, We can save them I Be checks his M-60, Cowboy grabs Mother's arm, "Listen man, cool it, No one's going out there. Animal says, "Stand down, motherfucker, or I'll cut you in half." Cowboy slowly lets go of his arm. Animal Mother hoists his M-60 machine gun and charges for the street crossing. He fires blind. Be-lopes along with the fluid grace of a meat eater. Elia chin is dripping saliva. Animal Mother is a predator attacking. Be wants warm blood to drink. Anillll!.l Mother wants human flesh to tear apart and devour. Animal Mother doesn't know 'What the hell he's doing. Be thinks he's John Wayne. Be makes it to Alice and Il0c Jay, spraying long bursts from his M-60.
C: BANG!
D: The sniper fires, kicking up dust a few inches fr0111 Mother's foot. Bis first miss. The M-60 return fire has mad: it less fun. Mother fumbles with Il0c Jay and sees he's dead. Be fires another burst up the side street and drags Alice behind a burned-out Citroen car overturned in the intersection.
C: BANG!
D: The sniper's bullet ricochets off the car. close, but no cigar, motherfuckert Mother fires back. The squad lends morale support, firing wildly. Cowboy says to Joker, I guess I just can't hack this shit, bro. Joker doesn't know what te say. Mother was lucky, he finally says. ae had a John Wayne wet dream. If I sent rrry people out there to get the niper ~ might have lost the whole squad." "Look Cowboy, you're the honcho. You give the orders. You make the decisions. I could never do that. I could never run a rifle squad. I don't have the balls. Cowboy thinks about it. "You're right, Joker. You shit bird, you're right. I've got to get my program quared, away. I wish Sergeant Gerheim was here. Then he grins, but something inside has gone. A big, M-48 Patton tank clanks into view in the rear. Dutton is riding behind the turret. Cowboy bouts and waves like a traffic cop. Mother holds Alice's head and says, "How's it going, Jungle Bunny?" "That morphine is great shit, Alice says. "Anything for a fix, Animal Mother says. Alice looks like he's going to pass out. Bey, Jungle bunny Bey, stay with me, man. Right on, Alice says weakly and closes his eyes again. Animal Mother shakes him. "Bey, Jungle Bunny. do you know how you keep five nigg era from raping a 'White girl? Alice opens his eyes. "Do you know how you keep five niggers from raping a white girl? "Bow? "Throw 'em a basketball. Animal Mother laughs and fires another bu:cst from his M-60. Bis eyes blaze with excitement. Be is high on primeval adrenalin.
C: I. I
D: fuck.inc; time in? Thirty months, poge. I got thirty months in country. I've been there, man. "Yeah, Joker aaya. "They've got his picture on the wall in the Hanoi Poat Office. '1'hat' a.ffirmative, aaya Corporal Payback. You liaten to Joker, liew Guy, Be knows ti ti - very little. And if he ever d.oea know anything it'll be because be learned it from me. You juat lc:now be' never been in the ahit. Be ain't got the atare. Bafter Man looks up. The stare?" 'l'he thouaand-yard atare, A Marine gets it after he' been in the ahit for too long. It' like you've really aeen beyond. I got it. Al.l field Marines got it. You'll 'have it, too. Bafter Man aays, 1 will? Corporal Payback takes a few hits off the joint and then passes it to Chili Vendor. 1 uaed to be an atheist, 'When I was a New Guy, a long time ago
N: Corporal. Payback takes his Zippo lighter out of hi ahirt pocket ll1ld hands it to Bafter Man, See? It aaya, 'Juat you and me, God. - right?'" Corporal Payback giggles. Se eeems to be trying to focua bi vision on 110me diatant object. Nobody is an atheist in a foxhole. You'll be praying. Rafter Man looks at Joker, grins, hands the lighter back. '1'here eure is a lot of stuff to learn. The tank is near. Cowboy double-times down the road to meet it. He runs past heaps of rubble 'Which were houses yesterday, bricks and stones and ■hattered wood today. '1'he tank jerks to a halt. The turret whir ■ The big ninety-millimeter gun locks on him. For a long moment it looks like the tank is going to blow Cowboy away. The top half of a blond tank commander appears in the turret hatch. The lieutenant is wearing a flak jacket and an olive-drab football helmet with a microphone that protrudes over his lips. Be is a mechanical centaur, half man, half tank. Cowboy explains about the sniper and points to Animal Mother and Alice lying on the ground behind the burned-out Citroen. The blond tank commander is silent. Be gives Cowboy a thumbs-up. The tank rolls up to the street corner. Animal Mother shouts and points down the street where he has spotted the .sniper. -62- The tank clanks down the block and opens fire with its big ninety-millimeter gun and its machine guns. Bugging the walls, the squad follows the tank, leap-frogging forward in short rushes. The medivac helicopter appears overhead. Cowboy throws a pink smoke grenade near Alice and waves the helicopter to the spot. Animal Mother dashes across the open street and ducks dO'WTl with the squad. He is a big hero. The men laugh and pound him on the back. Cowboy sends Lance Corporal Stutten and his fire team around behind aome buildings. Animal Mother sets up his M-60 on a low wall and opens fire, raking the building he thinks the sniper is in. Every fifth round is a tracer. The tank rolls up to that building. The rest of the aquad double-time down an, alley and cross the road do'W?l the street, at the end of the row of buildings. Up the street sits the tank. The tank fires a round of high explosives. The upper story of the building is blown apart. The roof collapses. Animal Mother continues to fire from his position near the tank. The helicopter crew loads Alice aboard and the chopper whop-whop-whops into the air, Cowboy double-times to the first building at their end of the street, Be steps carefully to the rear corner of the house, peeks around the corner. Cowboy waits for Lance Corporal Stutten to pop a green smoke as a signal that his fire team is in position as a blocking force, When green smoke begins to pour from a drainage ditch at the far end of the street Cowboy waves his hand and they all open fire at the building, One at a time, they run across the street to join Cowboy, Animal Mother joins up with them. Cowboy waves his hand around the corner and Lance Corporal !=utten's fire team opens up with I their weapons on full automatic, pouring hundreds of high~velocity copper-jacketed bullets into the building. The tank fires a second round. The ground floor of the building is blawn apart. The tank grinds forward twenty yards, stops, fires again. The first story of the building explodes. -63- Cowboy leads them into the building. Inside, they leapfrog from corner to corner. Cowboy pops a frag and underhands it into s0111ebody's kitchen. The detonation rocks the whole house, numbs their ears. Joker steps forward. Be gestures to Cowboy, jerks his thumb at the ceiling. Cowboy holds up a circled thumb and index finger, "okay. Joker pops a frag and pitches it up a stairwell to the second story. The explosion splits the plaster over their heads. outside, up the street, the tank fires again. Cowboy waves his hand and they follow him up the stairs. Upstairs, he kicks out a window and they all hop out onto the roof. The tank is two buildings away, It fires. They drop their gear and jump the six-foot chasm between buildings. Cowboy stands up and signals Lance Corporal Stutten, who waves back with his poncho, Bullets from Lance Corporal Stutten's fire team stop hitting the rear of the house they're standing on. The tank fires. The shell bursts. Shrapnel whines over them. They converge on a skylight. Joker drops a frag through the glass. The grenade explodes in an invisible room below. Concussion shatters the skylight. They drop through the ragged rectangular hole into ■ 0111ebody's library. Shrapnel has mangled leatherbound books. Joker picks up a 11111all leatherbound 'book for a souvenir. The author is Jules Verne: the t::i.tle is in French. Be stuffs the book into his thigh pocket and reaches to the front of his flak jacket for another grenade. They work their way through the house, fraggi.cg every hallway, every room. But they can't find the sniper. The tank fires into the second story of the house next door, -64- Joker takes a few steps down the stairs. Cowboy holds up his hand. Listen, They hear a noise on the roof. They run back to the library. They drag a heavy antique desk to the ruined skylight and Cowboy climbs upon it and starts to lift himself back onto the roof. Joker grabs Cowboy. wait a minute. If he's up there he'll pop your head off as soon as you stick it out. Never happen. Bey, man, you're crazy." Cowboy lifts himself up on the roof, looks around and tarts to reach a hand down for Joker. The CRACK! of a Simonov sniper's carbine - Co'Wboy falls back thro1Jgh the skylight. Joker catches him and eases him down to the desktop. Be is bleeding heavily from a chest 1i10und. Suddenly, everyone looks up to the cracked ceilillg thro1Jgh which can be heard the muffled thud, thud, thud of running footsteps on the roof. Joker tears open his first aid pack and kneels beside Cowboy. The rest of the squad cautiously move off in several different directions to cut off the sniper. Joker carefully pulls open Cowboy's shirt, now soaked with blood. Am I hit bad? Am I gonna make it?" You're gonna be okay." Joker tries to atop the flow of blood. Don't shit me, Joker. I'm not shitting you man. The wound is terrible and there is nothing Joker can do. Don't shit me, man. I'm not gonna make it. aey, if you don't make it who'll introduce me to your sister?" I,., don't have a .. sister I thought you knew that, No sister? You mean I've been wasting my time with you?" "Looks like it," Ccwboy is going very pale, "Tomorrow is,,, my birthday. "No, ■hit, Bow old will you be?" "Nineteen. "Bey, if I don't have time to get you a card Joker takes Cowboy's hand, "Joker?" "Yeah?" "Go and see . . my Mom. Joker knows there is no point in any further pretense. sure, "Bey, Joker "Yeah?" "Why me?" Cowboy's eyes close and his head rolls to one side. Joker feels for a pulse and checks his pupil reflex, just to make sure. Cowboy is dead. Animal Mother and Rafter Man come running down the corridor, we got him cornered up on the roof," Rafter Man says, "Cowboy's dead," Joker says. Animal Mother looks at Cowboy, "Come on, let's kill the cocksucker. Joker stands up slowly. -65- Joker pops a frag. Be climb up onto the desk and take hold of the roof with his left hand. Be lets the spoon fly. The spoon phinnnnings away and rattles across the floor. Be holds the sweaty green oval for three seconds and, lifting himself up, he fl.ips it up and back so that it rolls across the roof directly over them. The frag bursts, spraying seven hundred and fifty pieces of steel wire across the roof. The ceil.ing splits. Plaster and splintered wood bounce off his helmet. Rafter Han jumps up onto the desk and lifts himself up onto the roof. Surprised, Joker and Mother pull. themselves up after him. 'nle tank fires into the ground floor of the house next door. Rafter Han, Animal Mother and Joker crawl on their bellies on the roof. Rafter Han crawls up to the crest of the roof. He peers over the crest.
C: :BANG. A
D: hiss. Animal Mother pantomimes with his hand meaning: I'l.l. crawl off to the l.eft, you and Rafter Han crawl off to the right. Joker gives him a thumbs up. Joker crawls up beside Rafter Man. Be takes a peek. From behind a low chimney at the opposite corner of the roof a thin black line protrudes. They hear the incredibly loud clanking of the tank as it rolls on the street below. It stops. Rafter Han pulls away. Joker turns away and duck walks to the edge of the roof. Be stands up and is about to jWllp across when the house explodes beneath him. ae falls on his back. The sniper is moving
N: Rafter Han jumps over the crest of the roof and slides down the incline on his ass. Joker t.ries to stand up. But all of his bones have shifted one inch to the left. Suddenly a foot steps on his chest, pinning him. The sniper looks down, surprised. The sniper sees that Joker is helpless, glances back at Rafter Man, gets ready to jWllp across to the other roof. Rafter Man runs back up the incline and slides back down on his ass, ten yards away. Joker reaches for his grease gun. The sniper turns towards Rafter Man and raises her SKS carbine. She is a yo=s girl, no l'IIOre than seventeen years old, a slender Eurasian angel with dark, beautiful eyes, which, at the same time, are the hard eyes of a grunt. She's not quite five feet tall. Ber hair is long and black and shiny, held together by rawhide cord tied in a bow. Ber shirt and shorts are mustard-coloured khaki and look new. Slung di~gonally across her chest, separating her amall breasts, is a white cloth tube fat with sticky reddish rice. Ber B. F.
T: Goodrich sandals have been cut
N: from discarded tires. Around her tiny waist hangs a web belt from which dangle homemade hand grenades with hollow wooden handles, made by stuffing black powder into caca-COla cans, a knife for cleaning fish, and six canvas pouches containing banana clips for the AK-47 assault rifle slung on her back. SANGI Rafter Han is firing his M-16.
C: BANG! SANGI
D: The sniper lowers her weapon. She looks at Rafter Man. She looks at Joker. She tries to raise her weapon.
C: SANGI BANG! BANG! SANGI BANG!
D: Bullets shock flesh. Rafter Han is firing. Rafter Han's bullets are punching the life out of the sniper, The sniper falls off the roof and hits the street with a terrible sound. The tank fires into the ground floor beneath us. The house shakes. Animal Mother appears from behind a chimney, Joker stands up. Be feels like a dead man's shit. Be walks to the front of the house. Be waves to the blond tank commander. Be swings a fifty-caliber machine gun around and aims it at Joker. Joker steps into full view on the edge of the roof. Be waves a.n "all clear." The tank commander gives him a thl.U'llbs-up. Joker pops a green smoke grenade and drops it on the roof. Joker limps over to the sky light and climl:)s back down into the library. Rafter Han has already jumped into the library and is running down the shrapnel-scarred stairs. -66- Down the street Joker watches as the tank rolls up to the last house still standing. Be waves another "all clear" and the tank comma.nder gives him another smile and another thumbs-up and then the tank fires, blasting the top floor. It fires again, blasting the ground floor. The tank commander's great mechanical body grumbles contentedly and rumbles away. "Did you see that tank? Was that tank bad? What a honey, says Donlon. Animal Mother and Joker walk around to the rear of the house. They find Rafter Han standing over the sniper, drinking a can of Coca-Cola. Rafter Han grins. Be says, Things 90 better with eoke. Animal Mother walks up and Rafter Ha.n says, Look at herl Look at herl" 'l'hey all stand over the sniper. The sniper is drawing her breath with great effort. She grits her teeth a.nd then makes a sound like a dog that has been run over. llO Lance Corporal Stutten leads his fire team to the sniper. "Look at that, says Lance Corporal Stutten. "It' a girl. She's all busted up. "Look at her I Rafter Man is saying. Be struts around the moaning l1.1111p of torn meat. "Look at herl Am I bad? Am I a menace? Am I a life taker? Am I a heart breaker?" Animal Mother kneels and searches for papers. There are none. Then he unbuckles the sniper's web belt and jerks it from under her body. The sniper whimpers. She speaks to them in Prench. Animal Mother tosses the bloody belt to Rafter Man. A corpsman comes up and kneels beside the sniper. "No more boom-boom for this mama-san," he says. The sniper begins to pray in Vietnamese. Joker aays, "Let's get her back to the aid station. "She'd never make it." Rafter Man a.sks , "What's she saying? Joker shrugs. "What difference does it make?" Animal Mother spits. There is a burst of gunfire which sounds like it's coming from just down the street. It sputters out and then flares up again. Animal Mother says, "Let's get the fuck outta here." Joker says, "What about her?" "Fuck her, says Animal Mother. "Let her rot.'* "We can't just leave her here, Joker says. Animal Mother takes a giant step towards Joker, puts his face up close to his. "Bey, asshole, Cowboy is wasted. You're fresh out of frienda. I aay we leave the gook for the mother-loving rats. lll Rafter Han i buckling on his NVA belt. The belt has a dull-silver buckle with a star engraved in the centre. Joker aays, we can't leave her like this. 1 don't care, aays Animal Mother. Go on and waate her. Joker aays, ~0. Not me. Then we aaddle up and move now. Joker looks at the sniper. She whimpers. I try to decide what I would want if I were down, half dead, hurting bad, surrounded by my enemies. I look into her eyes, trying to find the answer. She sees me. She recc:,gni:es me - I am the one who will end her life. We share a bloody intimacy, As Joker lifts his grease gun ahe is praying in French. Be jerks the trigger. BANG! The aquad is silent. Then Donlon grunts, flashes a big grin. Han, you are one hard dude. Stutton and Liccardi are standing beside him. Stutton aays, Joker, that's a well done. You're hard, Animal Mother spits. Be takes a step, kneels, zips out his machete. With one powerful b~ow he chops off her head. Be picks the head up by its long black hair and holds it high. He laughs a.nd says, *Rest in pieces, bitch." Animal Mother laughs again. He "'11.lks around and ■ ticks the bloody ball of gore into all their faces. "Hard? Now who's hard? Now -.mo's hard, motherfuckers?" Animal Mother pauses, spits, throwu the head into a ditch. Be picks up his M--60 machine gun, lays it across his shoulders, struts over to Joker. "Nobody shits on the Animal, motherfucker. Nobody." Joker ■tares at him . Up ahead, at the street corner, the rest of the platoon has moved up and are crouched and lying behind cover, under fire. Three mortar rounds explode near their position. Animal Mother turns and trots to the street corner. The ■ quad follows him. Rafter Man aays to Joker, "Let's go, we'll come back for Cowboy. Joker doesn't aay anything and slowly moves off. Animal Mother reaches the corner. "We got the sniper - a gook bitch. Cowboy is wasted." Sergeant Murphy frowns. "Anyone else?" ll3 "Come on, hurry up. Sergeant Murphy shouts to Joker and Rafter Man. Joker and Rafter Man run the last part of the way, all their gear clattering. Sergeant Murphy points to some ruins a few hundred yards away. "We're taking fire from over there. We're getting ready to move out. He looks at Joker and Rafter Han. "Are you two still with us?" Rafter Man nods, eagerly. Joker looks at the ruins, sure.". The radio operator gives Sergeant Murphy the handset. Sergeant Murphy sticks a finger in one ear and has a short conversation. He gives the handset hack to the radio man. Be creeps forward, takes out his binoculars and studies the ruins. Several artillery rounds crash into the ruins, raising a pillar of smoke. "Lookitl Lookit that!" Rafter Man says. "That's sex! That's pure sex!" Sergeant Murphy gets to his feet. "Okay, rich kids, we're moving out. When we get past the fence form a line abreast, ten years apart. Let's gol" The platoon rise up behind Sergeant Murphy and begin to run forward, They fan out in a line abreast. The men begin to fire their rifles in the direction of the attack. Joker fires his rifle. The air is being torn. Green tracer bullets dissect the sky. Boots crunch in powdered stone. Equipment slaps, clangs and rattles. People curse. We're all running like big-assed birds. We don't want to do this. We are all afraid. But if you stayed behind you would be alone. Your friends are going: you go too. The shock of bullets punching through bricks. Splinters of atone sting their faces. You don't have to be who you are anymore. You're not a person anymore. You're part of an attack, one green object in a line of green objects. Bullets hit the street. The impact of the bullets is the ound of a covey of quail taking flight. And sparks. Something snaps and we're past the point of no return. We're running fast and we aren't going to a tor,. Nothing can top us . Sounds. cardboard being torn. Bead-on collisions. Trains derailing. Walls falling into the sea. Metal hornets swarm overhead. Pictures. The dark eyes of guns: the cold eyes of guns. Pictures blink and blur, a wall, a tiny man, shattered blocks of stone.
C: JOICE:R, THE MA.RINE RUNNING.
D: JOKER, 9 YEARS-OLD, ARMED WITH A PLASTIC RIFLE, RUNNING IN
C: A FIELD.
D: "Keep moving, keep moving, keep movinglll" llS People tell You what to do. Keeo moving, keep moving, keep moving. If you ■ too moving, if you hesitate, your heart will stop beating. Your legs are machines winding you up like a mechanical toy.
C: JOKER, TBE MARINE, RONNING, FIRING BIS RIFLE.
D: JOKER, THE 9 YEAR-OLD, FIRING
C: BIS TOY RIFLE.
D: You feel like you could run around the world. Now the asphalt is a trampoline and You are fast and graceful, a green jungle
C: JOKER, THE MARINE, RUNNING.
D: JOKER, THE 9 YEAR-OLD,
C: RUNNING.
D: Your feet take You up . up over the rubble up ... up ... you re loving it ... you' re not human, you're an animal, YoU feel like a god ,you scream: "DIEi DIE! DIE, YOU MOTHERFUCKERS! DIEi DIEi DIEi" JOKER, THE MARINE, IS RIDDLED WITH A BURST OF AUTOMATIC
C: FIRE.
D: JOKER, THE 8 YEAR OLD, CLUTCHES BIS CHEST IN MOCK AGONY AND STARTS TO CRUMPLE TO THE GROUND. BIS IMAGE WILL SLOW DOWN UNTIL WE BOLD ON A
C: FROZEN FRAME, IN A POSE SOMETHING LIKE CAPA'S FAMOUS SPANISH CIVIL WAR PHOTOGRAPH OF
D: A MAN WHO HAS JUST
C: BEEN
D: FATALLY SHOT BUT WHO IS
C: FOREVER SUSPENDED IN MID-FALL BY THE CAMERA. BUT THIS PICTURE IS OF AN
D: 8 YEAR-OLD BOY. -68- Cemetery. Joker's funeral. It is a bright sunny day. Joker's mother and father, pale and drawn, are grouped under a canopy facing the flag-draped casket, flanked by relatives and friends. Joker's father speaks with difficulty. My son wanted passionately to be a writer and while he was in Vietnam he kept this notebook which was found on his body. I'm going to read a few lines from it . which show the -.1_ immense talent he possessed which is now lost forever. With tears in his eyes, Joker's father fumbles for a particular page of w-riting in the dirty, worn notebook. Be finds it and beg ins, haltingly, to read it aloud. I often think about how things were when I was tan
N: I loved to lie in bed before the sun was up and before I was really awake and think of the long, exciting day ahead. The sky . had begun to turn pink, and the great stillness outside gave way to the rustling of trees and the sound of birds ... I went downstairs without waking anyone and went out into the backyard. The air was fragrant and cold and I watched the sun slowly come up from behind the mountain. and the sparrows pecking away. on the dewy grass I could hardly contain ffrY happiness." Joker's father is barely able to continue. Bow little I knew of the world beyoqd that garden and our town." Joker's father is overcome by a rush of tears. His wife holds on to him. Be regains some composure and continues. "And now I want to read some poetry by A. E, Bousman which his Mother and I . have chosen as his epitaph "Sere we lie because we did not choose To chame the lanci from which we sprung Life ... t.o be aure i nothing much t.o lose But. young men t.hink it. is anci we were young Tears st.rea.mi.ng ciown his face, his father slowly closes the notebook. We aee Joker's peace button pinneci t.o the notebook cover
