M: SKULLS
M: Story by
M: Patrick Aison & Dan Trachtenberg
M: Screenplay by
M: Patrick Aison
M: PRODUCTION WHITE: 05/25/21REVISED BLUE PAGES: 06/02/21REVISED PINK PAGES: 06/22/21REVISED YELLOW PAGES: 06/29/21REVISED GREEN PAGES: 07/19/21REVISED GOLDENDROD PAGES: 07/29/21REVISED BUFF PAGES: 08/03/21
M: August 3, 2021
M: The following is a transcription of a draft of Prey (titled Skulls at this point) dated August 3rd 2021. The actual script contained revision markers, and page headers that denoted which revised draft they came from. I was unable to preserve these, but I have left the page breaks and in one case two iterations of the same scene intact.
M: I hope you all enjoy!
M: Aaron Percival aka Corporal Hicks.
M: ii.
M: OMITTED 1 *1 1
M: TITLE: SOUTHERN GREAT PLAINS, SEPTEMBER 17192 2
M: A HAWK soars high above the plain. The rhythmic FLAP of its wings resounds.
M: Suddenly an ARROW cuts through the air. It zips toward the bird -- then misses, blown off course by the wind. *
M: The arrow arcs silently and falls back to the ground below where a young Comanche woman, NARU [“nah-doo”] (23), watches, holding her bow. She’s pissed. Naru’s name means “fighter,” which she earned by perpetually refusing to do as she’s told. Naru has a SCAR running diagonally across her right shoulder.
M: She fires a second arrow. It misses. There’s only one more arrow left in her QUIVER. She nocks it. Shoots. Misses with that one too. Argh.
M: To add to Naru's frustration her younger brother, TAABE [”tah- bay”] (21), stands beside her shaking his head in admonition. He has a scar on his shoulder that matches Naru's.
M: Taabe fires his arrow, then turns to face her -- so confident in his marksmanship he doesn’t need to watch. Taabe’s name means “sun” like the star in the sky. Lets you know his standing in the group.
M: TAABEPatience, pâtsí.
M: Taabe offers a wry grin as he uses the Comanche word for big sister.
M: avpgalaxy.net
M: Above them -- SKUUP -- Taabe’s arrow pierces the hawk’s torso sending out a plume of feathers. The bird drops the fish as both fall back to earth. There’s always another predator.
M: TAABE (CONT'D)You would have hit it if you waited.
M: NARUDon’t give me that ‘big sister’ crap. You only hit because you used my shots to gauge the wind.
M: Taabe smiles.
M: TAABEThat’s true.
M: WASAPE [”wah-sah-pay”] (20s), big with a stubborn face, his name means “bear”, comes running out to meet them. He looks at Taabe.
M: WASAPEYou left without telling me.
M: TAABEWe left when we were ready.
M: NARUWe don’t need your permission to hunt.
M: Wasape glares at her.
M: WASAPEYou shouldn’t even be here. Hunting is men’s work.
M: A second man, HUUPI [”whoo-pee”] (20s), crooked teeth, runs just behind Wasape, following him.
M: Taabe is proud of his sister.
M: TAABEShe’s the one who spotted the hawk.
M: Taabe starts toward where the bird landed in the tall grass.
M: Naru steps past Wasape, ignoring him. She makes a sound by sucking her teeth -- TiCh-TiCh. The grass parts at her feet and SARII [”suh-dee”], Naru's dog, appears.
M: avpgalaxy.net
M: He’s a small pup, about 30 pounds, unknown breed -- looks a little like a black lab and terrier cross. He’s got short dark hair with a lone white stripe down the center of his forehead.
M: NARUPetsuh!
M: Sarii bounds off into the grass to retrieve the fish.
M: Naru walks to the stream.
M: She refills her water bladder.
M: Wasape makes his way to her.
M: WASAPEYou think you’re a good hunter?
M: Naru looks up at him. He points to Taabe.
M: WASAPE (CONT'D)You’re only here because you’re his sister.
M: NARUAnd you’re only here because you’re the warchief’s son.
M: Ouch. Huupi looks away.
M: Naru seals up the water bladder. Steps around Wasape, walks toward Sarii.
M: A group of YOUNG COMANCHE are nearby using the stream’s reflective surface as a mirror as they wash and braid their hair. They watch Taabe, in awe of his hunting acumen.
M: He picks up the downed HAWK. Taabe handles the bird with reverence as he slides his arrow out of its body.
M: Taabe gestures to a KID nearby with a BOW and a QUIVER over his shoulder.
M: TAABE Show me your tools.
M: Nervous, the kid hands over his quiver.
M: Taabe examines the ARROWS inside. The FLETCHING (the feathers at the back end) is worn and uneven.
M: Taabe carefully removes a cluster of FEATHERS from the hawk. He hands them to the kid.
M: avpgalaxy.net
M: The kid looks thrilled. He smirks back at his friends who look on jealously.
M: As he walks back toward them Taabe stops him. Hands him more feathers.
M: TAABE (CONT'D)Fix theirs too.
M: The kid’s smug looks falls off his face. Taabe smiles at him.
M: TAABE (CONT'D)The practice will make you better.
M: As the kid walks back to his friends they smile and hand him their old arrows.
M: Naru walks to meet Sarii. He’s got the TROUT that the hawk was carrying in his jaw. Naru takes it from him. Wasape laughs at her.
M: avpgalaxy.net
M: WASAPEYour brother soars like a hawk.(beat)And you smell like a fish.
M: One man, PUHI [”poo-he”] (20s), laughs loud and long at Wasape’s dis. The others laugh too, but not Taabe.
M: Ignoring them, Naru walks to Wasape with Sarii at her heels. She looks at the big man, stone-faced.
M: NARUYou’d eat it if I let you.
M: Like many of the men Naru interacts with, Wasape doesn’t know how to handle her ferocity or candor. The big man swallows hard and blushes, drawing another hard laugh from Puhi.
M: Wasape shoves Puhi. He falls, but keeps laughing. Wasape looks at Huupi who glares at Puhi then turns away to avoid getting caught laughing too.
M: Naru smiles and starts to walk away. Following after her, Sarii looks expectantly at the fish, but she ignores him too.
S: EXT. NARU'S CAMP - DAY3 3
N: The home to a small band of Comanche. A few dozen TIPIS set up on the plain near the edge of a dense forest. A pack of HORSES graze in a field beside the camp. Naru and Sarii walk through the TIPIS. Two CHILDREN play a game: one rolls a wooden HOOP, the other attempts to throw LANCES through the hoop as it passes. Another DOG runs up to Sarii looking to play. Sarii ignores it, staying with Naru as she moves quickly through the camp. An ELDERLY WOMAN passes carrying a bundle of roots. She gives a sideways glance at Naru carrying the fish and makes a disapproving SOUND. Naru gives the old woman an insolent look then enters a TIPI.
S: INT. NARU'S TIPI - DAY4 4
N: The interior of the structure is laid out for function, not design. It’s ready to be packed up and moved with no notice. avpgalaxy.net A fire smolders in the center hearth. A pile of softball- sized stones are stacked in the burning embers, glowing red. A tripod constructed with sticks is set up near the fire. A “pot” made of buffalo stomach hangs from the three legs. The vessel is filled with steaming liquid. Naru peers into the pot. Uses a wooden spoon to sample the stew. Quickly pops her head back out the door flap and spits out the mouthful. Yuck. Wiping her mouth, Naru watches Sarii walk in a circle at the foot of one of the buffalo hide beds laid out by the inside edge of the tipi. Satisfied, the dog curls up on it. Naru kneels on the hide next to him and puts down the trout. The dog stares longingly at the fish. Naru takes off her pack. Sets her bow and quiver to the side. She walks to her BUFFALO SKIN bed. Folds back the top half. Hidden underneath is a leather SATCHEL. She lifts out the bag, opens it and grabs a flint KNIFE from inside. Naru cuts off the back third of the trout and tosses it to the edge of the tipi. Sarii waits for Naru. She nods and he leaps after the fish’s tail and begins to devour it. Naru reaches back into the satchel and pulls out a TOMAHAWK. She handles it lovingly. Places it next to her bow. The two handmade weapons have matching carvings. A moment later Naru's mother, ARUKA [”ah-dah-kah”](40s) not a smiler, enters the tipi. Like her children, Aruka has a diagonal scar on her shoulder. Aruka is carrying a bundle of root vegetables which she sets by the stew pot. The two women don’t speak or even greet each other. The tipi is a small place to ignore someone; it is clear from their interaction -- or lack thereof -- these two don’t get along. Naru takes a section of rolled buffalo leather out of the satchel, grabs a pointed stick and her flint knife and sits by the fire. She unrolls the thick leather hide, drapes it over her thigh, presses the flint edge against the leather and uses the pointed stick to break tiny flakes from the blade, sharpening its edge. avpgalaxy.net Continuing to ignore her daughter, Aruka uses forked sticks to lift a red-hot stone from the fire and drop it into the stew pot. She adds some of her root vegetables to the mix and stirs. Aruka samples the stew. She doesn’t spit it out, but she clearly doesn’t like it any more than Naru did. She looks down at the trout. Picks it up. Tosses it out of the tipi. ARUKAKeep your dog’s food outside. Sarii gives Aruka a fearful look. Naru glares at her mother. NARUYou’re too good to eat fish? ARUKAOf course I am. And so are you. It’s not our way. NARUIs it our way to go hungry? Aruka sets down her sticks and turns to Naru. ARUKAThe buffalo will return. NARUYou said that last year. ARUKAAnd I was right. They will. NARUYou have an answer for everything! Sarii looks at Naru, then Aruka. He picks up his piece of fish and exits the tipi -- “you two have fun, I’ll be outside.” ARUKADon’t be mad I know more than you, I’ve been around longer. NARUA lot longer.(beat)The world changes. Aruka smiles at Naru's sass. avpgalaxy.net ARUKAThat’s why you listen to the people that have seen it change before. Naru gives her mother a defiant stare. NARUAnd go hungry? ARUKAThis isn’t hunger. We still have stew. You’ve never known hunger. Aruka stirs the stew. ARUKA (CONT'D)You think hunting will make you great? NARUI think I’m good at it. ARUKAThere are bigger things than hunting. She picks up Naru's bow. Runs her hands over the carvings. ARUKA (CONT'D)We all have a role. Those are your father’s tools. Aruka tosses Naru a small leather MEDICINE POUCH. ARUKA (CONT’D)These are ours. Naru examines the pouch. It has a CRESCENT MOON painted on the side. She sets it down. Looks at her mother with defiance. ARUKA (CONT'D)Your brother is the hunter. NARUMy little brother. ARUKATaabe is not little anymore. And he follows your father. You follow me. NARUI’m better at hunting than I am with medicine. avpgalaxy.net ARUKAThat’s not saying much. On Naru's face we see the unique aggravation that only comes from being needled by your mother. Aruka sees her daughter’s frustration and softens. ARUKA (CONT'D)If you practiced with me, you would be a great healer. You’re my daughter. NARUI’m my father’s daughter too. Aruka sits next to Naru. ARUKAI held your father as the life ran out of him. She touches the scar on her daughter’s shoulder. ARUKA (CONT'D)You think I want to hold you back? I don’t. I just want to keep you from suffering. Naru goes back to sharpening her knife. NARUYou want to keep me from everything. Aruka sighs. She stands and puts the rest of the vegetables in the pot. Tastes it again. Pulls a sour face. Nudges Naru with her foot. ARUKAOK, brave fish-killing-hunter, go hunt us up some breadroot. This stew tastes like crap. Naru stares at her mom. Then gets up and reaches for her bow. ARUKA (CONT'D)You don’t need a bow for breadroot. Leaving her bow, Naru grabs the satchel and the tomahawk and exits. Aruka watches her daughter leave, a small look of regret on the older woman’s face. avpgalaxy.net
S: EXT. FOREST’S EDGE - DAY5 5
N: Naru walks along the plain searching the foliage under the scrubby cottonwood trees near the edge of the forest. Sarii keeps pace at her side. She stops at a cluster of purple flowers. Using the tomahawk she deftly hacks the breadroot out of the ground. This is the wrong the tool for the job but it keeps it interesting. Naru places the root in her satchel and moves on. She sees another breadroot and digs it out as well. Watching her we see why Naru would rather be hunting. The gathering process is boring and tedious. Naru spots more purple flowers and moves closer to the edge of the forest. Sarii lies in the grass watching as Naru digs up the roots. Naru drops a root into her satchel. She sets the bag down and looks at the tomahawk in her hand. She turns quickly and throws it. The tomahawk flips end over end and -- THUNK -- sticks into a tree trunk. Naru walks to retrieve the tomahawk. We see the tree trunk is scarred with dozens of HATCHET MARKS, this is where Naru practices with her weapon. She walks back to where she stood originally. Facing away from the tree she pivots, throws sidearm -- the hatchet slams into the tree at the exact same point, creating a perfect X with the mark from the previous hit. Naru pulls the hatchet and returns to digging for breadroot. She stops suddenly. Studies the ground. Spots DEER TRACKS in the dirt. Naru looks at Sarii. He stands up. She gestures to him with her chin and Sarii bounds into the woods to explore. She follows, holding the tomahawk at the ready.
S: EXT. FOREST - DAY6 6
N: Sarii moves quickly through the trees, on the scent of something. Naru stays with him. Deep into the woods. It’s darker here. The forest is dense. Naru looks back. They’re far from home. avpgalaxy.net Naru pauses for a beat, considers heading back toward the safety of more familiar land. But she’s on to something and Sarii is going after it quickly. Naru moves even farther into the woods. avpgalaxy.net Sarii stops abruptly. Naru looks around. She spots it before we do -- a large eight-prong BUCK grazing in the shade. The deer is unaware it’s being watched. Naru stays hidden. Downwind. She reaches for her bow -- damnit, it’s not there. She grips the tomahawk. Signals Sarii to sit. Naru starts in. Quietly. Moving to within the tomahawk’s range. She creeps toward the deer. Slowly. A dozen yards out. Presses against a tree. She can hear the deer breathing. It doesn’t know she’s there at all, let alone within striking distance. Naru peers around the tree. Cocks her arm back, readying the tomahawk. Suddenly a BARN OWL sails out of the tree, SCREECHING. The buck instantly bolts. Naru throws. The tomahawk slips past the huge deer -- slicing off a tuft of hair. Sarii leaps after the buck, barking. Naru runs to her weapon. Yanks it out of the tree. Gives chase following Sarii. The dog races after the deer, the two animals bounding between the trees ahead of Naru. The dog lunges to catch the buck’s hind leg. He misses. Leaps again. When he comes down -- CLINKK -- a metal SNAP. Sarii freezes. Yelps in pain. The buck keeps going. Naru arrives at her injured dog. She stops. Listens to the sound the buck’s hooves receding on the forest floor. Naru kneels by Sarii. His tail is pinched in the metal jaws of a FUR TRAP. She examines the rusty steel device. Sarii whimpers. Naru spreads the jaws. The dog jumps free, turns and barks angrily at the trap. avpgalaxy.net Naru turns the small trap over in her hands. She yanks on it. A long rusty chain is attached to one end. It wraps around a tree. She tries to pull it free. The chain doesn’t give. Naru pulls her knife and jams it into a chain link. She turns the blade. The knife breaks. Damn! Sarii barks at the trap again. Naru sets it down and checks the dog’s injured tail. Sarii is calm, allows her to investigate. The wound is bleeding. In the modern world a veterinarian might suture it shut. Sarii is lucky, the trap just barely clipped his tail. Had it closed on a leg his injury could have been way worse. Sarii watches as Naru stands and begins to search the ground. She finds the plant she’s looking for. Tears off some leaves. Then Naru pulls moss off a tree. She presses the moss and leaves together between her palms, rubbing quickly. She pulls out the medicine pouch Aruka gave her. It hangs from her necklace. Naru spills its contents into her palm. Sorts through the assorted FLOWERS and HERBS and removes a tiny pinch of what she wants. She takes a water BLADDER off her belt, mashes the pinch of medicine together with the leaves, moss, and water and bends down to Sarii’s tail. The dog lets out a loud yelp as she applies the poultice. Naru gives him a look. NARUShush. Are you a dog or a rabbit? Sarii whimpers at her admonition, then goes silent. Naru presses the poultice onto his tail and waits. After a long beat she lets go. The bleeding has stopped. Sarii licks her face. Naru scratches behind his ears. She wipes her hand on a tree then walks back to the trap. Searching the ground again she finds a large rock. Naru lifts the stone and pounds on the chain. Over and over. Nothing. Naru pounds harder. She swings down with all hermight. The rock breaks. Damn. Naru lifts the chain, examines it. avpgalaxy.net A loud NOISE overhead -- a turbine whirring. Naru looks up. Something way up in the sky catches Naru’s attention but her view is obscured by the dense trees. Dropping the chain, she moves toward a clearing to get a better look.
S: EXT. CLIFFS - DAY6A 6A
N: Naru steps out of the bushes and peers up. A quick glint of sunlight as something big tears across the sky with a white CONTRAIL streaming out behind it. Naru's eyes narrow. What the hell was that? Sarii growls softly. Naru looks down at the dog. When she looks up, the ship is gone. She looks back at Sarii. NARUWe’re far from camp. We should head back now. Spooked, Naru walks quickly. Sarii follows.
S: EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF NARU'S CAMP - DAY7 7
N: Moving quickly, Naru steps out of the woods. As she walks through the tall grass, two men from her band, ITSEE [”eat-say”](20s), squat and powerful, TABU [”tab-oo”](20s), nervous and jittery, run past her. Naru watches them. Then picks up her pace. NARUWhat happened? ITSEEA lion. It took Puhi.
S: EXT. NARU'S CAMP, CENTER CLEARING - DAY8 8
N: When Naru arrives Taabe, Wasape, Huupi, Itsee, and Tabu stand with PAAKA [”paah-kah”](19), fast and lithe, facing an older man. avpgalaxy.net This is WARCHIEF KEHETU [”keh-heh-tuh”](60s), Kehetu has lived a brutal life through decades of battle. He looks tired, moves like a aging athlete whose body is giving out after the strain of years of physical abuse. Standing beside Kehetu is his wife, SUMU [”suh-muh”] (50s), graceful and calm. He slips and she helps steady him. The young men look nervously at their warchief. Kehetu whispers to his wife. We don’t hear what he says but the words seem sharp and they register on Sumu’s face with dismay. Deep in thought, Sumu leaves. The warchief watches his wife walk to their tipi, then turns to the young men. Naru observes from a distance as the warchief stands in front of the men, sizing them up. KEHETUPuhi was at the tree line when it came. The big cat took him and headed east into the forest. He won’t have gotten far. The men seem to know what’s coming next and it doesn’t sit well with them. Their faces show their apprehension. Naru looks at Taabe. He’s the only one who remains unshaken. WASAPEIf the cat has Puhi, he’s probably dead already. Kehetu looks at his son with a hint of disappointment. KEHETUMaybe. But I’m not sending you after Puhi. I’m sending you after the cat. PAAKA The woods are full of lions. Naru looks at Paaka. NARU But most know never to come near the camp. The men turn to Naru, surprised she dared to speak. Kehetu stares at her as well. But he’s impressed. avpgalaxy.net KEHETU That’s right. And when one forgets we need to remind it. Wasape looks from Naru to his father. WASAPE You said you’re sending us? You’re not coming? Kehetu deliberately addresses all of the men. avpgalaxy.net KEHETUI’ve protected you all since you were children. It’s your turn now. The importance of this statement registers on Naru's face. If the men were apprehensive before now some are outright fearful. Kehetu smiles reassuringly. KEHETU (CONT'D)The time for standing behind your elders when you are in danger is over. Kehetu still speaks to all of them but is now looking at his son Wasape directly. KEHETU (CONT'D)It’s time to earn your place in our band. Go hunt. Kill the beast that threatens us. Wasape nods slowly. He turns to the others and lets out a powerful WAR WHOOP. As the other young men join in, HOWLING to overcome their fear, Taabe stares silently at Kehetu. The warchief meets Taabe’s gaze. They lock eyes for a meaningful moment. Kehetu gives a faint nod, then walks to join his wife in their tipi. Wasape steps out and stands where his father stood. He looks at the young men, then to the horses beside the camps. WASAPEThe cat is in the woods so we go on foot. Get your weapons, we’ll leave now. The young men run toward their respective tipis. avpgalaxy.net Naru still watches from the side. Her brother is the only one who didn’t rush off. As he turns we see why, his bow and quiver are on his back -- where they always are. Naru holds for a beat, deep in thought. Then she heads back toward her tipi.
S: EXT. NARU'S CAMP, KEHETU’S TIPI - DAY9 9
N: As Naru passes the warchief’s tipi she sees a young GIRL struggling to restring a BOW. Naru stops. Gestures for the girl to hand her the weapon. She inspects it. Rubs her fingers along the string. They come back dirty. NARU You have to keep it clean. Always. The girl nods. Naru points to a frayed spot. NARU (CONT’D)You have a fresh one? The girl nods again. NARU (CONT’D)Bring it to me. The girl runs off. Naru continues to examine the bow. She spots a ROUGH EDGE on the notch where the string attaches. Pulls her flint knife, begins to carve it smooth. From inside Kehetu’s tent she hears an argument. SUMU (O.S.) But why now!? Kehetu speaks softly. With love. KEHETU (O.S.)I had no say in when the lion would come. Naru peeks through the open flap. Inside Kehetu is attempting to comfort his wife. They’re caught up in the moment and don’t notice Naru. The warchief lowers himself to sit on a skin rug. We see that his body is failing him, he winces with each small movement. avpgalaxy.net SUMUHe’s not ready! Why did you send him? KEHETUI sent them all. Wasape might fail alone, but together they will kill that lion. SUMUIt’s not just the lion. The white men move in the eastern woods. They set their traps closer and closer. A look of recognition registers on Naru's face when Sumu mentions the traps, but she stays silent. KEHETUAll the more reason it is time to test our young. I can no longer be at the front of every battle. We need a new leader. Sumu processes the significance of what her husband is telling her. We watch it land on Naru as well. KEHETU (CONT'D)It does not matter that Wasape is our son. Leadership cannot be inherited. It must be earned. Outside, the girl returns with the new BOW STRING and hands it to Naru. Using her legs for leverage, Naru deftly bends the wood -- loops the bowstring into place -- releases it. She hands the restrung bow to the girl who smiles and runs off. Naru begins to move on, then stops as she hears Kehetu continue to explain to Sumu. KEHETU (CONT'D)There are those that protect, and those that need protection. The warchief takes his wife’s hand. He grimaces in pain as he lies back on the rug. KEHETU (CONT'D)I sent them now so I will still be here to help sort between the two. Outside the tipi we see Naru's face. She knows which category she wants to be in. avpgalaxy.net
S: EXT. FOREST - DAY10 10
N: The empty pine trees are dark and foreboding. The sounds of the forest fill the air. A man’s silhouette appears. It’s holding a weapon. The figure steps out of the shadows. It’s Taabe. He’s followed by Wasape and the others in the hunting party: Huupi, Itsee, Tabu, and Paaka. As they come into clearer view we see their faces are painted. Each has their own distinct pattern made with red, white and black clay. Taabe’s is the most striking in appearance, it is ominous and deadly looking -- a THICK WHITE BAND running ear to ear across his face with a THIN BLACK SLIT intersecting each eye. The group of Comanche walks in unison, quietly stalking.
C: OMITTEDA10A A10A
D: EXT. FOREST - DAYA10B A10B The hunting party continues through the forest on the other side of the stream, undaunted by the threatening feel of the woods. There’s a rustling noise behind them. Taabe stops and turns. The others hear it a moment later and turn as well. Paaka draws back an arrow, Taabe grabs his hand. Paaka turns to him, anger in his eyes. Taabe gestures for Paaka to look in the direction he was about to fire, he does and Naru steps out of the shadows. She’s carrying her bow and wearing her own unique face paint scheme -- hers is primarily black with a JAGGED RED OUTLINE. NARUYou’re off the cat’s trail. Taabe cocks his head. Sarii comes out of the woods. He stops at Naru's feet and stares back. Naru makes the sound -- TiCh-TiCh -- Sarii headsback in. Taabe nods and starts after Sarii. Wasape stops him. avpgalaxy.net EXT. FOREST - DAY10 10 The empty pine trees are dark and foreboding. The sounds of the forest fill the air. A man’s silhouette appears. It’s holding a weapon. The figure steps out of the shadows. It’s Taabe. He’s followed by Wasape and the others in the hunting party: Huupi, Itsee, Tabu, and Paaka. As they come into clearer view we see their faces are painted. Each has their own distinct pattern made with red, white and black clay. Taabe’s is the most striking in appearance, it is ominous and deadly looking -- a THICK WHITE BAND running ear to ear across his face with a THIN BLACK SLIT intersecting each eye. The group of Comanche walks in unison, quietly stalking. EXT. FOREST STREAM - DAYA10A A10A The warriors crash through the river maintaining their formation. EXT. FOREST - DAYA10B A10B The hunting party continues through the forest on the other side of the stream, undaunted by the threatening feel of the woods. There’s a rustling noise behind them. Taabe stops and turns. The others hear it a moment later and turn as well. Paaka draws back an arrow, Taabe grabs his hand. Paaka turns to him, anger in his eyes. Taabe gestures for Paaka to look in the direction he was about to fire, he does and Naru steps out of the shadows. She’s carrying her bow and wearing her own unique face paint scheme -- hers is primarily black with a JAGGED RED OUTLINE. PAAKAYou could get shot sneaking up like that. NARU Who is sneaking up? I was loud enough for an old man to hear. avpgalaxy.net Taabe smiles enjoying his sister’s chutzpah. Paaka gives her a dirty look. WASAPEWhy did you come? We won’t be gone long enough to need a cook. Paaka laughs. Naru looks like she’d love to shoot him. She chokes back her anger and turns to Taabe. NARU You’re off the cat’s trail. Taabe cocks his head. Sarii comes out of the woods. He stops at Naru's feet and stares back. Naru makes the sound -- TiCh-TiCh -- Sarii heads back in. Taabe nods and starts after Sarii. Wasape stops him. WASAPE Hunting is men’s work. We’ll need silence. Not woman’s chatter. Paaka laughs. Taabe doesn’t. TAABE She should stay. She tracks well. And if we find Puhi alive she knows medicine. avpgalaxy.net Wasape doesn’t like being challenged but he knows the others respect Taabe. He nods, moves on. The others continue on as well. Naru looks down at Sarii. Taabe walks to her. Speaks so only she can hear. TAABE You have to find that cat now. NARUI will. TAABEI know. Because you have to.
E: CONT'D beat
C: OMMITED10A 10A
D: EXT. FOREST - DAY11 11 Taabe and Naru are on one side of the group, Wasape is on the other. They move with speed and grace. A deadly squad. Cruising over the terrain with stealth and precision, a cohesive unit of trained hunters. Naru is watching as Sarii stops. Sniffs the ground. Taabe catches sight of it too -- the dog found something. He’s smelling a pile of animal DROPPINGS. WASAPEOh good. Your dog found shit. PAAKAWe’re not looking for wolves. Taabe steps closer. avpgalaxy.net TAABEIt’s not wolf. See the crushed bone? That’s lion scat. It’s fresh. And the cat that made it was big. Naru scratches Sarii behind the ears. She reaches into her satchel and pulls out a hunk of PEMMICAN . Naru gives Sarii the food as a reward. Naru examines the plants nearby. She shows Taabe who touches them, then walks back to the others. He shows Wasape the blood on his fingertips, then returns to the blood trail. The others follow. EXT. FOREST - DUSK12 12 The hunting party moves deeper into the woods. The vegetation is thicker here. It’s darker. Sarii runs back to Naru and pants, awaiting her attention. When she looks, Sarii darts ahead into the woods -- he found something else. Naru moves forward quickly. She pulls her tomahawk. The others draw their weapons too. Naru points. Taabe follows her line. He stops. Signals for the others to stop. Naru taps her ear, gesturing “listen”. The hunting party is still and quiet. A faint sound. WHEEZING. Taabe slowly turns his head, trying to locate the source. Taabe moves to the base of a huge Douglas fir -- Puhi is lying in the dirt below. His shirt’s torn off. His torso covered in claw marks. Four deep puncture wounds surround Puhi’s neck -- evidence of the lion’s canine teeth closing on his throat. Staring at the wounded man, Wasape looks as if he’s going to be sick. He steadies himself, holding on to a tree. Naru puts her ear by Puhi’s mouth. She listens for breath. Hears it. She nods to Taabe. EXT. FOREST - DUSK12A 12A The hunting party snaps into action as a team: avpgalaxy.net Taabe positions Paaka and Itsee to stand guard. He finds a PINE CONE. Coats the cone in SAP. He cuts a branch off the tree. Chops out a three-foot section. Splits the top twice, forming an X. Shoves the cone into the X. He strikes a rock with the back of his flint tomahawk -- a spark ignites the cone -- Taabe rises holding a TORCH. Naru scans the area for medicinal plants. Wasape and Huupi begin to fashion a STRETCHER using branches and a pelt. Naru presses the herbal medicine into Puhi’s wounds. After a beat, she stands and regards his condition. She’s not satisfied. She searches the ground near the base of a tree. Finds a cluster of MUSHROOMS. She pulls a handful. Puts all but one in a POUCH on her belt, then walks back to Puhi. The others watch as Naru lifts the small medicine pouch from around her neck. She carefully sorts out some bright orange FLOWER PETALS. Tabu regards the orange flowers with fear. TABUHe needs that? NARUYes. She takes the water bladder from her belt. Using the water, she mixes the crushed mushroom and the orange petals together. Naru opens Puhi’s mouth. As she reaches to place the medicine on his tongue, Itsee grabs her wrist. ITSEESo much could kill him. Naru stares into Itsee’s eyes, firmly confident. avpgalaxy.net NARUYes it could. But without it he’ll die for certain. Naru pulls her hand free and puts the flowers in Puhi’s mouth, pours water in after, massages his throat, manually forcing the injured man to swallow. They watch. Puhi lies motionless. He convulses suddenly -- it’s like he’s been hit with shock paddles. He twitches wildly, bouncing on the dirt floor, the muscles in his chest squirming inside his skin. Puhi’s eyes pop open. He gasps deeply then wraps his arms around himself as if bracing, naked, from a freezing wind. TAABEHe’s got to be brought home. WASAPE What about the cat? Taabe hands Wasape his torch. TAABEI’ll find it. Wasape looks at Taabe, conflicted. He’s eager to leave the danger behind but doesn’t want to appear afraid. WASAPEShould I stay? Taabe reads Wasape’s fear and gives him a way out. TAABEHe will need more medicine than Naru can give him here. We have to get him home fast, and we need your strength to do it. The others watch, recognizing that the warchief’s son is taking direction from Taabe. Wasape nods and begins to load Puhi onto the stretcher. NARU I’ll stay with you. Taabe sees the concern on Naru's face. He speaks quietly to her as the others finish loading Puhi onto the stretcher. avpgalaxy.net TAABEI can handle the lion. NARUIt’s not just the lion. Why is Puhi alive? Something scared the cat away from its den. TAABEI’ve got this. Your little brother is grown now,pâtsí. Stay with Puhi, he needs your help too. Wasape approaches Naru and interrupts angrily. WASAPEWe have no time to waste talking. We need to get him home. Now. When Naru turns back to Taabe he’s gone, disappeared into the forest. Naru's face shows her deep concern for her brother. Paaka and Huupi grab the heavy stretcher and lift. On Wasape’s cue, the hunting party moves out carrying Puhi. Naru looks at Sarii, then moves to catch up with the others.
E: the Native American version of MREs; highly portable food that doesn’t spoil nervous to Taabe smiles
C: OMMITED12A 12A
D: EXT. FOREST - NIGHT13 13 Wasape and the others continue back toward camp, crashing through the woods, choosing speed over stealth. A few yards back Naru and Sarii move with them. Ever vigilant, she makes as little noise as possible. Puhi begins to MOAN. He convulses again. Paaka stops. Naru moves forward to check on him. He’s soaked and shivering so badly his teeth are chattering. Paaka reaches to re-cover Puhi with buffalo hide cloak that has drifted down to his legs. Naru stops him. avpgalaxy.net NARUThe cold is good. The medicine slows his blood. If he gets warm he’ll bleed out. Wasape stares at Puhi shivering, he looks miserable. Even Sarii watches seemingly with sympathy. NARU Do you want him to be comfortable or alive? As the party moves on, Naru spots something on the ground. She lowers her torch to get a better look. Follows the trail a few steps off. EXT. SMALL CLEARING - NIGHT14 14 Naru continues on, studying the ground. She stops. Spots a dead MOUSE. Bending closer she sees two FANG marks in its body. Curious, she looks past the mouse to the base of a thick tree. Something near the roots catches her eye. She moves closer. Examines it -- a peeled MUSCULAR SYSTEM of a DIAMONDBACK. The cuts are surgical, strange. As Naru explores it, the dead snake slithers. She sets it down. Lowers her torch. In the light she spots two large FOOTPRINTS. They’re huge, larger than any man’s. At the front end of each print there are four distinct claw marks -- these are PREDATOR TRACKS. Studying the tree’s trunk Naru sees fresh GOUGES in the bark; claw marks from something heavy climbing up. There’s a CRACK above her. A tree limb groaning under weight. Looking up, Naru stands frozen and stares, unable to make sense of the view. There’s something there, she just can’t see it. PREDATOR POV -- the alien stares back at Naru, he too is stock still, observing. Naru moves backward -- bumps into something -- she whirls -- it’s Wasape. He smiles, enjoying having startled her. avpgalaxy.net WASAPEWe don’t have time to wait for you. Keep up. He starts back to the others. Naru stops him. NARULook. EXT. SMALL CLEARING - NIGHT15 15 Paaka, Huupi, Wasape, and Naru look at the Predator’s footprints. PAAKACould be bear tracks? NARUMaybe. But that’s a big bear. Huupi and Paaka nod agreement. Naru looks around. NARU And why was it only on hind legs? Wasape looks the others. There’s a quickness in his voice. Fear he’s trying to cover. WASAPEWe need to keep moving. Naru stares at him. Then starts back in the direction they’ve been traveling away from. NARUI have to warn my brother. WASAPEWarn him of what? NARUWhatever left these tracks is what scared off the lion. WASAPEYou don’t know that. And unlike you, your brother can take care of himself. We need to get Puhi home. Naru continues back toward Taabe. avpgalaxy.net NARUYou’ll get him there. I have to help Taabe. Wasape gives a disdainful snort. WASAPEHe doesn’t need your help. Naru does not waste time slowing to respond. Wasape watches her getting father away. He’s pissed. WASAPE Shit! Go with her. Taabe won’t want her out alone. Paaka runs to catch up with Naru. Wasape kicks the Predator’s footprints, obliterating them. High in the tree above Wasape, still cloaked, the Predator stares down. He’s holding the diamondback’s SKULL. Attaches it to his loincloth. EXT. FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT16 16 Naru and Sarii run through the trees. It’s dark now. They pass over the enormous downed tree and a few other landmarks we recognize -- they’re going back, away from safety. There’s a look of determination on Naru's face. She moves with stealth but she’s eager to get to her brother quickly. 50 yards back Paaka struggles to keep up. EXT. FOREST - NIGHT17 17 Still tearing through the foliage, Naru slows suddenly. Sariifollows her lead and moves at a deliberate pace by her feet. Taking advantage of their reduced speed, Paaka manages to catch up. In his haste Paaka steps on a branch, snapping it. Naru gives him an admonishing look, then keeps going. She steps around the huge Douglas fir and arrives back at the mountain lion den. Sarii sniffs the ground where they found Puhi. Staying silent, Naru listens to the forest. Sarii continues searching the ground for Taabe’s trail. avpgalaxy.net Naru and Paaka follow the dog as he moves deeper into the woods, his nose hovering above the ground. Naru hears a noise. Sarii runs back to her. She stops. Listens. This time we hear it too. It’s faint but distinct. Something moving in the leaves. Paaka continues to stomp loudly through the foliage. Then suddenly his torch goes out. Naru looks back toward where Paake was. When she turns back Taabe is there. Smiling. TAABEPâtsí. A look of relief comes over Naru. Paaka is standing behind Taabe, his torch on the ground by his feet. TAABE We don’t need torches. They’llscare the cat. We’re in its hunting grounds. Naru puts hers out. TAABE Why did you come back? NARUI found tracks. Maybe bear. Maybe something else. I wanted to warn you. It’s what scared that cat off. That’s the only reason Puhi was alive when we found him. TAABEI’m not frightened of a bear. Naru hesitates. She looks at Paaka then decides she has to tell Taabe. NARUI don’t think it was bear. He looks at her -- really? NARU I don’t know what it was. I’ve never seen tracks like that. Taabe considers this. He knows Naru is a great tracker. avpgalaxy.net TAABEWhatever they were, the lion thinks it owns this range. NARUThat’s why it came so close to the camp. TAABEYes. It won’t think we’re hunting it here, it will think it’s hunting us. We’ll turn its strength into weakness. OMITTED18 18 EXT. DENSE BRUSH - NIGHT18A 18A Taabe, Naru, and Paake crawl through tall grass to a mound overlooking a game trail. Naru looks out past the brush up into a huge dead cottonwood TREE that stands above the trail. NARUYou said this is the lion’s hunting grounds? Taabe nods. NARU If it’s come through this pass before, it will again. Naru points up into the tree’s branches. NARU We climb up. Wait for it. Paaka looks at Naru with disdain. PAAKAA hunter doesn’t wait. He hunts. We could be here all night. He looks to Taabe for back up, but Taabe’s expression is blank. He’s considering. NARUWe could stalk the forest without spotting it too. avpgalaxy.net PAAKAIf you’re too afraid to hunt, go back to camp where you belong. Taabe stands. Looks back into the woods. TAABEWe’ll try it Naru’s way. Naru looks at Paaka -- “I told you”. TAABE We’ll bait it. Then I’ll lead the cat to you. Taabe walks back into the woods. Naru looks down at Sarii. NARUHome, Sarii, now. She signals him -- TiCh-TiCh -- and the dog heads back toward camp. EXT. COTTONWOOD TREE - LATER19 19 There is a dead POSSUM on the ground near the tree. It’s been positioned carefully in the path. The possum’s blood trail runs down the trail, leading the lion to the trap. Naru and Paaka wait in the old tree, braced against the sturdy limbs. Dappled moonlight filters through the leaves. Naru sharpens her lance. Judging by the pile of wood shavings, they’ve been waiting a long while. The eerie silence of the forest is all encompassing. PAAKAIt won’t matter how sharp it is if you’re too afraid to use it. Naru ignores him. Paaka shakes his head in disgust. PAAKA Women don’t hunt. When your brother comes back he and I will find the lion and kill it. There is a hint of movement in the grass below. Naru’s eyes narrow. avpgalaxy.net What was it? Suddenly, Paaka is yanked off his branch -- disappears into the grass. Naru instantly grabs her bow. Nocks an arrow. Steps forward. She scans the tall grass. What took him?! There’s nothing. Just tension. And fear. The MOUNTIAN LION springs up out of the grass -- leaping at Naru in the tree. It lands on a low branch. Naru fires an arrow at the huge lion. It moves forward, undaunted. Naru grabs her lance. Backs up farther into the tree. The lion climbs closer. And closer. She jabs the lance at the angry, snarling beast. He backs her farther up the branch. She’s so far out -- the branch SNAPS. As Naru falls she throws her lance. She hits the ground. Springs up to her feet. And runs. At. Full. Speed. Her skin shreds as she bounces off the sharp bark of the trees. But Naru does not care. She just stared the devil dead in the face -- and it pounced. ARUKA Where is your brother? OMITTED20 20 avpgalaxy.net INT. KEHETU’S TIPI - NIGHT21 21 Aruka and Naru are standing in the warchief’s tent. Sumu and a few other camp ELDERS are there as well. Kehetu is still lying on his buffalo skin mat. Naru looks at her mother, fighting to hide her shame. NARUWe got separated. She stares at the elders, feeling the pressure of their judgement. NARU I made my way back alone. The others look away. Kehetu turns to Aruka. With great effort he manages to sit up. KEHETUHe will return. His words sound like hope, not fact. NARUHow is Puhi? SUMUThe medicine you gave him kept him alive. GIRL Auntie Sumu! Auntie Sumu! The adults turn to look as the flap of the tipi opens. The young girl steps in. Stops halfway. Stares at the elders. She’s struck silent, surprised to see so many faces. Kehetu looks at her. Gives the smallest of smiles. KEHETU What is it, little one? The girl blurts her excitement. GIRL Come. Come see! She runs back out of the tipi. The others follow. avpgalaxy.net EXT. NARU'S CAMP - NIGHT22 22 The girl runs to the edge of the camp clearing and points out into the plain. With Wasape’s help, Kehetu walks out of the tipi. Joining him, Naru and the others peer out to where she’s indicating. In the far distance, a lone figure walks through the tall grass toward them. He’s carrying something large in his right hand. A bundle of some sort. We can’t quite make it out. Kehetu looks at the little girl. She smiles back at him. He looks back into the field. And now we can see. It’s Taabe. His body is soaked in blood. As he moves closer we see -- the white band of paint on Taabe’s face has been replaced with the blood of the lion. In his right hand he grips the head of the beast -- theevidence of his successful hunt. The huge animal’s pelt is draped over his shoulders. The rest of the lion is dragging behind him on a makeshift travois bound to Taabe’s waist. Kehetu looks at Wasape, then to Sumu. Sumu nods, she stares at her son, he looks away. Taabe lays the hunting trophy at Kehetu’s feet. As more of the Comanche learn of Taabe’s achievement they come running. The young men get as close as they can, women watch from nearby. Kehetu puts his hands on Taabe’s shoulders. Stares into Taabe’s eyes. EXT. NARU'S CAMP - LATER23 23 An enormous BONFIRE is burning outside Kehetu’s tipi. Its light flickers on the faces of the Comanche in the camp. A member of the band plays a HAND DRUM while SINGING softly. Naru stands alone, observing from a small, self-imposed distance. Kehetu is at the front of the crowd, he’s holding a carved STAFF, gripping it tightly to help hold himself up. avpgalaxy.net The entire camp watches as Kehetu gestures for Taabe to step forward and join him at the edge of the fire. Naru looks to the fire. She watches Taabe walk to Kehetu. The warchief hands the carved staff to Taabe who turns back to face the camp holding it. The other young men all step forward. They raise their arms and let out loud WAR CRIES. Taabe smiles back in appreciation. He notices that Wasape is not celebrating. His eyes harden slightly. Sumu nudges Wasape. He lets out a big WAR CRY. The rest of the crowd joins in. The women LULU loudly. Taabe basks in the moment. This is his coronation. He looks at the beaming faces around him. Kehetu holds up a hand to silence them. KEHETUA new leader stands before us. We honor him. But remember, one alone does little. We each have a job to do. We don’t always choose our role. Some follow, some lead. But to survive we must all do our part. The old warchief stares into his son’s eyes. Wasape nods his acceptance. KEHETU There is honor in all our work. The warchief is speaking to his son but we see how his words affect Naru. Kehetu raises Taabe’s arm. The crowd erupts again. The old warchief rests his hand on Taabe’s shoulder. Looks into his eyes. Then heads back to his tipi. Naru watches the other young men surround her brother. She stares for a loaded beat. Then cuts through the crowd, heading back to her tipi. Taabe looks past the men surrounding him. Sees his sister walking away. He rushes forward to meet her. avpgalaxy.net TAABEI did it, Naru. Naru stops. They stand alone together for a moment. Taabe is beaming. He gives his sister a wide smile. Then sees the apprehensive look on her face. TAABE I was young when our father died. You taught me how to hunt. And fight. Raised me to where I am. And I’m grateful, pâtsí. Forever. Because of you I am ready for this. Naru looks at him. Shakes her head. NARUSomething scared that lion off. Why else would it leave its den? And whatever it is, it’s still out there. Taabe’s face shifts. TAABEThe forest is full of dangers. It always will be. NARUThis is different. Taabe looks at her for a beat. Then he smiles knowingly. TAABENaru, it’s done. The challenge was given. And met. NARUWhat? Taabe places his hand on her shoulder. TAABEDon’t be jealous of what I’ve achieved. You helped make it so. NARUJealous? I’m trying to protect you. avpgalaxy.net TAABEI don’t need protection. I’m not your little brother anymore. I’m your warchief. Taabe gives her a loving look. TAABE You heard Kehetu, we each have a role to play. A woman carrying breadroot passes by. TAABE There is honor in all of our paths. Taabe starts to walk away. Naru grabs him. NARUListen to me ... Taabe turns back to her, there’s anger in his face. TAABEI did listen, pâtsí. There will always be threats. A good warchief doesn’t chase every noise in the woods. I am the one who leads now. If we need another hunting party I’ll send it. Right now, we don’t. He nods indicating the finality of his word, steps around her and joins the other young men who greet him warmly. Naru glares at Taabe and the other men celebrating. The bonfire reflects in her eyes, its intensity matched by her fury. INT. NARU'S TIPI - DAWN24 24 It’s early and quiet. The cheers from Taabe’s coronation party have grown silent. Naru lies asleep on in her bed. Aruka nudges her with her foot. Naru’s eyes pop open. She glances at the hearth in the center of the tipi, the fire has gone out. Yawning, Naru grabs a buffalo hide firewood BAG. She glances over at Taabe sleeping peacefully on his bed, then heads out, a look of frustration on her face. avpgalaxy.net EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF NARU'S CAMP - DAWN25 25 Naru looks at the half-dozen other young Comanche WOMEN heading to do their chores. Among them is a YOUNG MOTHER, her BABY strapped to her back. The young girl who announced Taabe’s return exits her tipi rubbing sleep from her eyes and begins her chores as well. They are all headed in the same direction. Walking toward the river. Naru watches for a beat. Then she stops. INT. NARU'S TIPI - DAWN26 26 Naru enters. Drops the empty bag back by the fire. Grabs her bow. Quickly and silently packs up her gear. Sleeping by the door, Sarii cracks an eye as Naru exits. He springs to his feet and follows her out.
E: CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D to Paaka CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D O.S. PRE-LAP CONT'D O.S. looking at Wasape CONT'D CONT'D beat CONT'D CONT'D
C: OMITTED26A 26A
D: EXT. NARU'S CAMP - DAWN26B 26B As the woman of the camp all head to do their chores, Naru walks in the opposite direction, followed by Sarii. MONTAGE -- VARIOUS WOODED AREAS - DAY26C 26C Naru and Sarii walk along a creek. They continue through the wildness, beginning their journey. EXT. PRAIRIE’S EDGE - DAY27 27 Naru and Sarii move along the edge of the FOREST. They walk. And walk. Naru comes through the tree line and is able to see into a vast, open plain. avpgalaxy.net Small red MOUNDS dot the landscape. A curious expression comes across Naru's face. EXT. PRAIRIE - LATER28 28 As Naru and Sarii get closer we see what the mounds are - skinned BUFFALO CARCASSES. Dozens of them litter the plain. Naru looks out at the rotting remains. No Comanche would perpetrate this type of slaughter. Looking closer she spots a BULLET HOLE in the SKULL of the animal before her. Naru examines it closely -- the wound is nothing like any she’s seen before. She kneels and places her palm between the horns. Closes her eyes and incants a small, quiet prayer. Naru stands, a look of disgust and outrage flooding her face. She walks to a charred spot in the grass. Evidence of a smallcampfire. Naru feels the embers, she puts her hand right in, they are long cold. Scanning the ground she spots something -- the chewed BUTT of a rough-hewn CIGAR. Naru picks it up, sniffs it, makes a sour face, tosses it away. NARUWe’re going to find whatever it is out there. She looks down at Sarii. NARU And we’re gonna kill it. OMITTED29 29 EXT. FOREST - DAY30 30 There’s movement in the trees above. A limb creaks under the weight of something heavy. The Predator’s big feet splash down into the creek we saw Naru pass as she headed out. From behind the alien we see him studying the ground. He spots Naru and Sarii’s tracks. avpgalaxy.net OMITTED31 31 OMITTED32 32 EXT. PINE GROVE - LATER32A 32A A COTTONTAIL pops its head up out of a broken stump, sniffs the air, eats a fallen berry. SHUNNKK -- Naru’s tomahawk slams into the stump -- a half * second too late. The rabbit is gone. As Naru goes to retrieve her weapon a second rabbit scurries across the leaf-covered ground right in front of her. Damn. She dives to grab the tomahawk, pivots and hucks it at the rabbit -- a shortstop turning a double play. The hatchet skips off the ground, and just barely misses the second cottontail. Sarii looks on as Naru sits in the leaves. Two more rabbits cross right by her. Damn it. She dusts herself off and picks up the hatchet. Turns it over in her hands, regarding the weapon, thinking of something. EXT. PINE GROVE - LATER33 33 Sarii watches as Naru manufactures a natural rope: Using her flint knife, she splits a thin branch. Braids the lengths of cut material together. Stretches them taut. Examines the length of finished ROPE. Ties it carefully around the tomahawk’s handle. EXT. PINE GROVE - DAY33A 33A33A 33A Naru feels the weapon in her hand. Finding its center of balance. She throws -- the hatchet sticks into a tree -- she yanks the rope -- the weapon sails back toward her -- but she misses catching it! avpgalaxy.net Naru picks it up. Throws. Hits. Pulls back. This time she catches it. She throws again. It hits. She pulls -- catches -- throws. Pulls -- catches -- throws. Pulls -- catches -- throws. Naru stands between two trees. There’s an X in each one. There’s a faint RUSTLE behind her. Two cottontails run along the forest floor. Naru smiles. SCENE 34 HAS BECOME SCENE 3634 34 OMITTED35 35 EXT. GRASSLAND BELOW MESA - DAY36 36 Naru walks out of the woods into the open land. There’s a rope slung across her back, FOUR RABBITS hanging from it. Sarii eyes them hungrily. Lets out a small yelp. Naru gives him an admonishing look. NARUCome on, we’ll eat soon. She moves on, heading toward a distant MESA with sparse trees growing on the side slopes. EXT. PRAIRIE’S EDGE - DAY36A 36A A heavy branch on a tall pine by the tree line bordering the prairie CREAKS as it bends. A THUD as the Predator drops into the dirt below. We stay on his feet as he walks into the field and stops at a buffalo carcass. He too examines the dead animal, touches its skull. He scans the ground. Sees the faint evidence of Naru's footprints in the matted grass. EXT. MESA TOP - DAY37 37 Naru walks the edge of the flat topped hill. The view is astounding. She studies the miles of surrounding land. avpgalaxy.net She grabs up some kindling and heads back into the tree line away from the mesa’s edge. She’s prepping a small FIRE. Naru drops the kindling in. Crouches and lights it. EXT. MESA TOP FIRE - DUSK38 38 Three skewered cottontails roast over the flame of Naru's fire. Sarii stares at the feast, his wet tongue dangling in anticipation. Naru turns the skewer, pulls a cooked rabbit and tosses it to the dog. As Sarii devours it, Naru looks at the tomahawk lying on the hide by her thigh and smiles. She pulls some food for herself. Rolls out her buffalo hide. Settles in for the night. EXT. MESA TOP FIRE - MORNING39 39 Naru and Sarii sit looking out at the view. She gets up and begins to break camp. Filling in the fire pit, scattering the sticks. Sarii watches as Naru packs the last cooked rabbit into her satchel. She walks to the edge of the mesa. Naru shields her eyes with her hand as she peers down at a distant STREAM running through the woods. Sunlight glints off the surface of the moving water. She looks back at Sarii, who still lies on the ground. She shakes her head at him. NARUCome on. The dog doesn’t move. NARU I like it up here too. But we’re gonna find what left those tracks. She starts down the side of the mesa. Sarii follows. EXT. FOREST, TRAIL, SPIKY STUMP - DAY40 40 An ominous-looking TREE STUMP with numerous SPIKY, BROKEN PIECES jutting upwards. avpgalaxy.net Its gnarled roots meet the ground by a faint TRACK in the dirt. [Note: this is a bear track that Naru reads as a possible Predator footprint, they are similar in appearance.] Naru studies the print. Sarii walks over carrying a long STICK. She takes the stick from him, measures the distance between the print and the one that preceded it. Naru breaks the stick at the matching length then uses it to find the faint outline of the next print moving forward. EXT. MESA TOP - DAY41 41 From behind we watch the Predator examine the ground. He finds the charred BONES from Naru and Sarii’s meal. He de-cloaks. Attached to his loincloth, next to the snake’s skull, he now has the skull of a WOLF. The Predator removes his BACKPACK. He reaches inside and takes out two types of METALLIC OBJECTS. One is a spherical shape , the other a coiled, sectional device . He attaches a few of each to his loin cloth. He reaches back into the ruck and withdraws a strange WEAPON. The sun gleams off of its razor-sharp projectiles. As he assembles the device we see what it is: a Predator CROSSBOLT -- the analog version of the Predator’s classic three pronged laser cannon. The Predator activates the weapon. Loads it. Moves on. OMITTED42 42 OMITTED43 43 EXT. MUD PIT - DAY44 44 Naru steps out of the plants into the open space. Sarii wanders off laterally, darts after something in the trees. Naru scans the terrain. The ground in the small clearing is covered in moss. But oddly there’s no stream. A quiet RUMBLE fills the air. The low gurgle of rushing water. avpgalaxy.net Naru takes a step forward toward a ROCK FORMATION on the other side of the moss -- but suddenly the moss below her gives way -- Naru sinks knee deep into the mud below. Naru yanks her leg free but in doing so her other foot breaks through the moss, sending her further into the sinkhole. Both her feet are now submerged in thick, viscid mud. She drops her bow and uses her hands to try to pull herself free -- but it only worsens her position. Naru scrambles to free herself but it has the opposite effect -- she sinks chest deep into the liquid clay. The sound of the underground stream is louder now as muddy water bubbles up and Naru sinks deeper and deeper in. The mud is up to her neck now. Naru continues to drop. Her chin dips below the muck. Naru's mouth fills. Her face contorts as Naru strains with great effort, her movements concealed under the surface of the mud. Just when it looks like she’s going under for good -- her arm pops up out -- holding her tomahawk. Naru grunts as she maneuvers. She wipes mud from her eyes. Cocks her arm back. Throws the tomahawk as hard as possible. The hatchet sails through the air, strikes the base of the rock formation and slides off. Damn it. Naru reels in the rope. Throws again. This time the hatchet blade wedges itself into a small crevice in the rocks. Naru pulls hard. The rope digs into her wrist -- but it works. She hauls herself up out of the mud until she’s lying flat on the moss and then reels her body toward the rocks. EXT. BASE OF ROCK FORMATION - DAY45 45 Naru, caked in mud, stands at the base of the rocks, freeing her tomahawk from where it’s wedged. She gets it out. Examines the blade. EXT. POND’S EDGE - DAY46 46 Naru sits by the edge of the small pond. She’s clean but wet, having washed off. avpgalaxy.net Naru wipes the mud off of her bowstring. She cups a handful of water from the pond to clean the weapon. Sarii walks back out of the trees, carrying a small ANIMAL in his mouth. NARUThere you are. Studying the ground she finds more tracks [Note: these prints are the same as in scene 40, bear tracks that Naru thinks are the Predator’s]. Back on the hunt, she follows the trail. EXT. FOREST, CLIFF BY MOUNTAINSIDE STREAM - DAY47 47 Naru steps out of the woods looking down from a low cliff at a stream below. The tracks are clearly visible in the wet dirt by the bank. Naru looks up ahead. A gigantic BROWN BEAR is moving up the stream toward a BEAVER DAM. The fur on the bear’s belly and legs is clotted with mud -- this is the animal Naru has been tracking. NARU It was a bear. Naru looks at the grass on the side of the stream. The wind is bending it back toward her. NARU Stay downwind. Staying behind the bear, she moves toward it. EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY48 48 Naru keeps her eyes on her target. The bear rounds a corner at the bottom of the mountain, nearing the beaver dam. She checks the grass. Sees the wind is still working in her favor. She moves closer to the bear. EXT. OPPOSING HILL - DAY49 49 From across the stream we watch Naru. Below her, around the base of the rocks, the bear continues to examine the beaver dam, sniffing it. avpgalaxy.net Suddenly a blurred outline steps into view. The Predator. He uncloaks and stares out at the view. Turning on his Predator vision, he watches Naru. EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE LEDGE - DAY50 50 Ready to take her shot, Naru pulls her bow. Nocks an arrow. Draws back -- the wet bowstring snaps! Shit! Immediately she surveys the damage to her bow. Attempts to restring the weapon. Below her, the bear explores the dam. Then suddenly -- the wind shifts! The bear sniffs -- then turns -- it sees Naru! Roars. Her cover blown, Naru scrambles to quickly fix her bow. EXT. OPPOSING HILL - DAY51 51 In Predator vision, the Predator watches Naru, zooming in on her as she works to repair her weapon. Then he pans over. Watching the giant bear as it begins to head up the steep incline toward Naru. EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE LEDGE - DAY52 52 Still scrambling to retie her bowstring, Naru watches the bear move closer. The bear is almost to her -- her bow remains untied -- suddenly Sarii runs down into the woods -- barking madly. The bear turns. It charges -- chasing Sarii toward the trees. Naru gets the bow restrung -- slides down the slope, off the edge as she nocks an arrow. Aiming, Naru scans the woods for Sarii and the bear. Suddenly Sarii bolts back out. Behind him -- the bear. avpgalaxy.net Naru fires. Her aim is true. The arrow lodges into the bear. But it keeps charging. Naru turns. Runs. EXT. STREAM BANK - DAY53 53 Naru scrambles, sprinting down the stream. Sarii is just ahead of her. Beyond him, the beaver dam. Racing through the knee-deep water, Naru looks back at the bear. Her arrow juts out of its thick hide, a mere annoyance to the mighty beast. Naru plows on -- reaches the beaver dam -- dives under and in. INT. BEAVER DAM - CONTINUOUS54 54 Naru pops up into the small darkened dam. She pulls herself farther in. Turns onto her back. Looks up at the tangled nest of heavy branches that form the dam. Outside she hears the huge bear SNORT and SNIFF. Suddenly a paw tears into the dam -- its thick claws swipe just above Naru's face. EXT. STREAM - DAY55 55 From behind the bear we watch as it menaces the dam, furiously trying to get to Naru inside. INT. BEAVER DAM - DAY56 56 Naru looks up in terror. The bear shoves its huge snout down into the gap it created with its paw. Its jaw snaps open as it snarls angrily at Naru. Then suddenly the bear steps back. Naru peers out through the jagged opening in the dam. The bear is snarling and circling -- it’s facing off against something. But what? From inside, Naru's view is limited. The huge beast circles. Goes up on its hind legs. Roars. avpgalaxy.net Naru looks out, struggling to gain vantage. The huge bear crashes backwards into the water -- leaps back up to its feet -- swipes at the air. Glowing GREEN BLOOD MARKS appear -- floating where the bear’s claws scratched the invisible Predator’s skin. The alien, still cloaked, crashes down into the stream. The bear moves around it -- blocking Naru's view. Then suddenly the huge bear backs up. It moves closer and closer to Naru -- she retreats back from the hole in the dam but is stuck in its confines -- the bear crashes backwards down onto the dam, smashing the structure apart. The huge animal is still. Dead. Naru stares into its lifeless jaws. Then suddenly, the bear’s body rises. The enormous animal floats, suspended in the air above the shattered dam. Cowering inside the tangle of wood, Naru watches as the bear’s blood runs down, revealing what’s holding up its carcass -- The Predator. His outline made visible by the bear’s blood. Naru stares in awe of the powerful alien. Wrenching her eyes away, she turns. Scrambles through the wrecked dam, fleeing. She submerges into the stream -- pops up outside of the dam, and paddles downstream. EXT. STREAM - DAY57 57 Swimming hard, Naru moves away from the dam. Sarii appears at the bank of the stream, barking. Naru tries to swim to him but the current is quick here. She’s pushed farther along. Rounds a bend. The stream widens. It’s a river here. Rapids. Naru is drifting fast. She looks back at Sarii who recedes into the distance. The water is moving very quickly -- she’s swept along. Seeing she can’t make it to the bank in time, Naru takes a deep breath -- crashes into the intense rapids. avpgalaxy.net EXT. RIVER BEYOND RAPIDS - DAY58 58 The water is more mellow here. Naru's head pops up above the waterline. She inhales deeply. Swims towards the bank. EXT. RIVER BANK - LATER59 59 All of Naru’s warpaint has washed off. She wrings the water out of a soggy leather boot. Slips it back on and steps into the woods. EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY60 60 Naru walks stealthily. The light that filters through the tree tops is dappled and diffuse. Creepy. Still wet from the river, she squeezes water from her braids. A noise to her side -- a branch SNAPPING. Naru draws her tomahawk. Moves in. She sees Itsee aiming his bow back at her. NARUWhat are you doing here? Itsee lowers his bow. Wasape steps out of trees with Huupi, and ANIA [”Ahneeah”] . WASAPELooking for you. Your brother sent us to bring you home. NARUThat’s a waste of time. WASAPE I agree. But he’s warchief now. NARUWhere is he? WASAPESearching for you on the other side of the pass. Naru starts to walk away. avpgalaxy.net WASAPEWhere are you going? Itsee moves in front of her. Naru stops. Turns to Wasape. NARUI saw it. WASAPESaw what? NARUThe beast that made the track in the camp. The one that drove the lion off. WASAPEThe bear? NARUA bear. And another. Something huge. WASAPEWhat? Naru struggles to find words to describe the Predator. NARUIt was invisible. But when it killed the bear its body showed in the blood. It was a ... I don’t know ... A moopits. There’s silence for a beat. Then Wasape breaks into a loud laugh. The others join in. WASAPEYou saw a monster from a children’s story? The warriors give Naru incredulous looks. NARUIt fought the bear with just its hands. Killed it easily. Wasape shakes his head. WASAPEEnough. We’re not safe here. There are real dangers. avpgalaxy.net Not just demons from stories that frighten little girls. He walks to Naru and grabs her arm. WASAPE We’re going home now. Don’t worry, I’ll tuck you in if you have any more bad dreams. Naru jerks her arm free, draws her tomahawk and glares at him. Wasape gives her a big, dumb smile -- I dare you. Naru slowly lowers the weapon. Starts to walk again. NARUI’m going to finish my hunt. Wasape steps in front of her. WASAPEHunting what? A monster? I don’t know what you saw. But even if it is real, you tried this already with the lion. You ran. Naru's face falls. Wasape nods knowingly, enjoying this. WASAPE Your brother told me. It's time to come home. Naru looks into Wasape’s eyes. She screws up her courage -- she is not going to back down. NARUI saw it. And I am going to finish my hunt. She looks past the big man, into the faces of the other warriors. NARU Would you leave a hunt? They stare back in silence, unable to answer. Naru turns away and starts back on the trail. Wasape rushes forward and blocks her way again. WASAPEWe’re going back to the camp.
E: CONT'D CONT'D END CUT-CLAMP to herself CONT'D to Sarii 21 mean smile goes for it MORE CONT'D CONT'D beat CONT'D
C: WASAPE
D: avpgalaxy.net NARUYou are. A standoff. Tense. They stare with hatred. Wasape lurches toward Naru -- who pivots and, using the big man’s mass against himself, sends him to the ground. Wasape reaches up and brute-force hauls her down too. They grapple. Naru is a ferocious competitor. Knowing she can’t beat him on strength, Naru fights smart. She’s undaunted by the 50-plus pounds Wasape has on her. Using her fists, knees and elbows she rains down a storm of well placed strikes on any unprotected pressure point. She lands a particularly well-aimed punch to Wasape’s crotch, folding the big man over. Furious, Wasape charges, fist cocked back -- Naru retreats and at the last second, jukes, and trips Wasape -- sending him crashing to the floor again. Enraged, the huge man springs up. He lurches forward -- and finally connects with a punch -- sending Naru staggering back. Itsee calls to Wasape. ITSEECareful, someone will get hurt. Naru shakes her head to clear it -- and charges Wasape. NARUYes, someone will! Wasape smiles as Naru tackles him to the ground. He ties her up in a firm hold. Naru strains to get free, overpowered by his mass. Wasape hauls her in front of him and slips the nook of his meaty arm around her neck -- squeezing her into a choke hold. Naru's face begins to redden. She moves her head -- chomps down, biting hard into his forearm. Wasape jerks away instinctively. Naru leaps to her feet. The big man gets up. He looks at Naru standing before him -- fists up, ready to go. They’re both breathing heavily. Wasape studies the teeth marks on his arm. Relenting, he raises his hands with his palms out -- OK, enough. avpgalaxy.net EXT. FOREST, NEARBY - SAME61 61 Perched on the branch of a tall tree, the blurred outline of the Predator appears. He stops. Looks down at the Comanche below. In Predator vision he scans the warriors. Zooms in on Wasape. EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY62 62 Wasape rubs the bite mark on his arm. Glares at Naru. WASAPEFine. You want to leave, go. Naru looks at him for a beat. Licks her split lip and spits. Then she lowers her fists. The instant she does, Wasape springs forward and hammers a right cross directly into her jaw. Naru drops, woozy. Before she can recover, Wasape grabs her. Bends her arms back. Binds her wrists with a leather strap. EXT. FOREST, NEARBY - SAME63 63 The Predator watches Wasape haul Naru up to her feet where she stands on shaky legs. Wasape shoves her forward, Itsee grabs her arm. EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY64 64 Wasape leads Naru to sit with her back against a downed tree trunk. Itsee gives him a look. WASAPEYou like being bit? She fights like a man, she can fall like a man. Wasape checks the bite mark on his arm. Gives Naru a dirty look. He reaches down and takes Naru’s tomahawk. He examines the customized weapon, a derisive smile on his face. WASAPE You need a leash so you don’t lose it? Naru doesn’t give him the satisfaction of a response. Wasape tucks the hatchet in his belt then grabs her water and empties it over the bite mark. avpgalaxy.net WASAPE We rest a minute, then head back. Staying together. ITSEEWhat about Taabe? avpgalaxy.net WASAPEHe’ll meet us at the camp. Itsee steps into the woods. Wasape shoots him a look. WASAPE I said stay together. ITSEEI’m going to take a crap. You want me to do it here? Wasape lets him go. Then turns to Huupi. WASAPE Water. Huupi gives Wasape a defiant look but tosses him his canteen. Wasape drinks. EXT. DEEP FOREST - DAY65 65 Itsee adjusts his breechcloth and kicks a pile of leaves over the small hole he just used. As he walks back toward camp he pulls leaves off a bush, rubs them briskly between his palms and tosses them aside. Continuing, he slows. A funny look comes across his face. He stops. Turns slowly. Itsee stands silent in the forest, listening. The sound of BRANCHES moving. Itsee stares up at the trees, a terrified look on his face. EXT. DEEP FOREST TRAIL - DAY66 66 Naru flexes her jaw while peering up at Wasape. She checks her surroundings. The other warriors are packing up to move on. Naru starts to get up. She’s unsteady on her feet. Uses the log for balance as she rises. WASAPEYou don’t need to get up. Naru continues to get to her feet. Wasape puts his hand on her shoulder and firmly pushes her back down against the log. avpgalaxy.net WASAPE Just sit. Naru slips back to the ground. Wasape touches his lip where it’s split from his fight with Naru. He reaches down and tears her medicine pouch off her necklace. Naru strains to get up -- then stops suddenly and listens. There’s a rustling in the woods. Something moving. Naru snaps into action -- she instantly ducks down beside the log. The other Comanche warriors look nervously to Wasape for what to do. He just stands still, watching Naru. The sound gets closer -- and suddenly -- a family of POSSUMS scurries through the camp. Ania shoots one of the possums with his bow. Wasape breaks into a fit of laughter. The other Comanche start laughing too. Naru doesn’t change her expression. Hysterical, Wasape points at her. WASAPE You should see your face. NARUWhat do you think drove the possums toward us? Wasape just laughs. He strolls arrogantly toward the woods where the possums exited. Looking back at Naru he grins -- what are you afraid of? Three bright red LASER POINTS appear on his chest. They instantly spread out -- one over his heart, one over his liver and one on his eye socket. Wasape reaches up, examines the light on his hand -- THWIIP!! Three razor sharp arrows pierce the big man, right on target. As Wasape drops, the Predator steps into the camp. The remaining Comanche warriors stare in stunned silence, they look at Naru -- holy shit, she was right! NARU Cut me loose. avpgalaxy.net Ignoring her, the warriors stare into the clearing, searching for the cloaked Predator. HUUPIStay down. Naru crawls to where she can peer over the log. Watches the battle unfold. Huupi draws his bow -- fires arrows with incredible speed. Three of them careen off the invisible blur as the Predator closes the distance between himself and the warrior. The Predator steps to within a foot of Huupi -- who draws his flint knife and charges -- the Predator sidesteps. Huupi turns and moves back toward his foe holding his knife at the ready. The Predator’s cloak flickers again. He looks at the weapon in Huupi’s hand then slides out his wrist blades. Huupi waits. When the Predator flickers into view, he lurches forward, lunging to stab. Using his gauntlet to block, the Predator deflects the knife then slices his wrist blades across Huupi’s abdomen -- Huupi doubles over as the Predator brings the blades back up. And cuts Huupi’s head off. He turns to face Huupi, who grips a lance. Naru looks from the fight over to Wasape’s body. Sees her satchel under his body. The Predator activates his COMBISTICK. Ania watches the alien weapon extend, then the cloak activates again, concealing the Predator. Ania charges and the two foes duel, parrying with their similarly shaped weapons. Seeing her opening, Naru runs to Wasape’s body. Her wrists still bound, she works to get her tomahawk free from his belt. Back in the fight, Ania manages to slam the flint blade of his lance into the center of the Predator’s chest plate -- the weapon’s crude flint tip shatters on his armor. Ania rotates the lance. Using the other end -- a sharpened wooden point -- he spears down -- the spike drives into the Predator’s foot, his cloak flickers off. He lets out a roar of pain and steps back, kicking the lance loose. avpgalaxy.net It sails over to where Naru is retrieving her hatchet. Naru pulls it free -- spins it so the blade is against her leather bindings -- jams the flint edge through the cord -- catches the handle in her now-free hands. She grabs her medicine pouch, ties it back around her neck. The Predator swipes the bladed end of the combistick -- slicing Ania’s chest. Undaunted, Ania squares up against the invisible Predator. He stares past the alien at Naru. Slowly, ominously, the Predator turns, following Ania’s gaze. His camouflage flickers as he locks eyes with Naru. Then he turns invisible again. Naru runs. Behind her, our only understanding of the Predator comes from the combistick which splits into two pieces mid-air. We see the floating combisticks fell Ania. Naru tears through the trees, running at full force away from the battle. EXT. TALL GRASSY PLAIN - DAY67 67 Naru emerges from the tree line sprinting. The tall, pale grass whips against her skin. She runs hard without looking back. About 100 paces into the grass, Naru YELPS as she’s tripped, brought down by someone hiding in the field. INT. INSIDE THE TALL GRASS - DAY68 68 Itsee is lying in wait in the grass. He signals Naru to be silent. For a tense beat they sit, covered by the grass, breathing deeply. Waiting. There is nothing but the sound of the wind passing through the grass. Then footsteps. Heavy footsteps. Naru and Itsee peer out. The grass by the tree line parts -- driven aside by the Predator’s invisible form. He gets closer. avpgalaxy.net And closer. Stops 20 feet in front of them -- he is right there. clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick Itsee reaches to his quiver -- nocks his arrow -- draws it back -- aims through the tall grass. ITSEE We have him. Naru shakes her head. NARUNo. He has us. As she says the words, the Predator’s red lasers shine through the tall grass -- Naru grabs Itsee’s arm -- turns -- yanks him with her -- the Predator’s arrows miss by inches. Naru and Itsee sprint away -- the grass behind them parts -- the Predator is running after them. Naru pulls ahead -- the Predator gains on Itsee -- he’s closer -- and closer -- inches away -- Itsee drops -- blood sprays the grass -- Naru keeps running -- behind her the Predator gives chase, his faint outline coated in Itsee’s blood. Naru sprints for the next patch of TREES. She clears the edge of the grass -- leaps over a downed log -- CLINKK -- Naru jerks back -- slams to the ground like she’s hit the end of a leash. We come over the log and see what stopped Naru: her ankle is clamped in the metal jaws of a SMALL FUR TRAP. Naru uses her free leg to stand. She bends down to examine the trap. Blood trickles from where the metal teeth have pierced her flesh. She pulls her flint knife from her boot. The trap shattered the blade, but her wound is less serious that it could have been. Naru grabs the trap. Tries to open it. Stares back at the edge of the grass. The tall blades part -- the invisible Predator arrives -- it steps over the log -- the chain connected to the trap on Naru's ankle floats as the Predator lifts it off the ground. clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick avpgalaxy.net Naru stares at the gap in the tall grass. Suddenly, behind her, the sound of FOOTFALLS. Lots of them. The chain drops with a CLANG. The grass parts -- the outline of the Predator disappears back into it. Naru returns her attention to prying open the trap. MALE VOICE Regardez ici. Naru looks behind her -- A pack of French FUR TRAPPERS aim their smoothbore MUSKETS at her face. A large, HEAVILY BEARDED trapper with a rough CIGAR clenched in his teeth, steps forward. Examines Naru. [NOTE: THE TRAPPERS SPEAK FRENCH WITH SUBTITLES] BIG BEARD A woman. A trapper with a WAXED MUSTACHE , joins his compatriots. He’s holding a rope LEASH -- at the end of it is Sarii. He’s muzzled and pulling against the trapper. WAXED MUSTACHEWhat’s she doing out here? Big Beard shakes his head. He looks into the grass in thedirection where Naru came from. WAXED MUSTACHE She’ll slow us down. Big Beard hammers the butt stock of his musket down onto Naru’s head. She crumples to the ground unconscious. BIG BEARDI’ll carry her. The way she was running, I think she’s seen it. EXT. BEAR CAGE, TRAPPERS’ CAMP - NIGHT69 69 Naru's eyes open as she comes to. She doesn’t move. She peers out of wood slats. A rough-hewn crate. She’s folded up on the bottom. avpgalaxy.net Naru adjusts her position in the crate to get a better look through the slats. Sarii is next to her, lying on his side, still bound. The dog looks up at Naru. Naru reaches out and touches his nose. Then she feels the wooden box surrounding her. The crate is old and worn but it’s solid enough to keep her in. She touches the spot where the trapper hit her face. Winces. She’s got the beginnings of a black eye. Naru shifts her body. Looks down at her leg. The puncture wounds from the trap are swollen and continue to bleed. She examines the cuts. She peers out of the crate. In the distance she sees the two men that captured her. They are seated by a small fire with TWO DOZEN TRAPPERS. Several HORSES graze in a small field near the fire. The men are speaking French in hushed tones. They’re far enough away that she wouldn’t be able to tell what they’re saying even if she spoke their language. The man with the big beard is giving orders to the others, who are making adjustments on a large piece of equipment. Naru can’t see what it is but we hear what sounds like CHAINS being coiled on the ground. Laying prone on the cage floor, Naru rocks back and forth. She whispers a quiet prayer. NARUTaabe, brother, please, come help me. Naru slowly sits. Through gritted teeth she finishes her angry prayer. NARU Help me kill all of them. Naru opens her eyes. She adjusts her position in the crate. Studies the trapper’s camp. There’s not much to it. A hastily put together outpost. Bloody, half-cured ANIMAL SKINS lie in piles throughout the camp. Hunks of rotting meat nearby. Flies buzz around a mound of ENTRAILS. The trappers have set their long guns in a pyramid by the rest of their gear. Coils of ROPE and CHAIN sit next to a series of TRAPS. Tall stacks of BUFFALO HIDES are piled high. avpgalaxy.net Sarii lies on the ground near the gear. The rope around his muzzle keeps him from barking. His four feet are bound together as well -- all he can do is watch powerlessly. Across from Naru there’s another CRATE. Naru returns her attention to her wounded leg. She pulls her medicine pouch and begins to separate out the appropriate herbs. Checking to see that they’re not watching, Naru looks back at the trappers. Two of them are stacking TRAPS, they have a lot of them. Big Beard watches them work. He nods with satisfaction then points to Naru's crate. The trappers walk toward her. Seeing them coming, Naru quickly stashes her medicine. As the men approach, Naru stares defiantly into their ugly faces, unafraid. She sees the stub end of a rough CIGAR in the corner of Big Beard’s mouth, recognizes it from the camp near the buffalo slaughter. Waxed Mustache leans over Naru's cage and peers in at her. He turns to Big Beard. WAXED MUSTACHEWhat’s a woman doing so far out? Big Beard picks up a stick, slides it into the crate andpokes Naru. As she recoils the trappers laugh, showing their decaying teeth. BIG BEARDLet’s see what she knows. Big Beard signals to two of his men and they step forward to get her out of the crate. As the lead mean reaches in to Naru she kicks him back -- hard. The second man stops. Big Beard shoves the stick into the crate and jabs at Naru's wounded leg with it. When she grabs for the stick, he withdraws it quickly then swings it back in, smacking her on top of the head. Big Beard turns to one of his men, RAPHAEL , pasty- faced. He says something in French. Raphael turns to Naru. RAPHAELWill you come out? [RAPHAEL SPEAKS FRENCH WITH HIS CREW AND COMANCHE WITH NARU] avpgalaxy.net Naru looks at him. Surprised to hear the man speaking her language. RAPHAEL I speak a lot of languages. Still she gives no reply. RAPHAEL You are coming out of there one way or another, why make it hurt? Naru glares at him without responding. Raphael looks at Big Beard and shakes his head. BIG BEARD Get her out of that damn box. Four trappers attempt the task and it takes all four of them to yank Naru out and hold her. Big Beard speaks French and Raphael translates. RAPHAELYou should be helping us. We may hurt you. But that thing out there will peel you alive. Naru's face shows her surprise that they know about the Predator. Big Beard spits out more French. RAPHAEL We know it made your camp. That’s what you were running from. Naru's expression shows Big Beard that his guess was right. RAPHAEL You were going to hide from it? Naru's eyes light up with anger. She looks at Big Beard with pure defiant rage. NARUI was going to kill it. Raphael translates. Big Beard gives a hearty laugh. He gestures to one of the men who hands him something. avpgalaxy.net The big trapper leans in close and puts what he’s holding right by Naru's face -- a LEAF -- covered in bright green PREDATOR BLOOD. Raphael translates. RAPHAELYou? You think you could kill this beast? Naru stares at the green blood on the leaf. NARUIf it bleeds, I can kill it. Big Beard smiles and shakes his head. He tells Raphael what to say in French. RAPHAELIf you were smart you’d help us. It killed your whole party. Naru looks up at him defiantly. NARUIt didn’t kill everyone. Raphael turns to Big Beard and translates. The big man looks at Naru. He gives an ugly smile. Then walks to the crate across from her. Kicks it open. There is someone inside. He turns to Naru. It’s Taabe. His arms and legs are bound. He’s clearly taken a beating at the hands of the trappers. The pain in his eyes is palpable. The sight of Taabe imprisoned is devastating for Naru. She may not say it but Taabe is her hero, her rock. And now he’s boxed in like an animal. Naru has never been angrier in her life. Big Beard says something to Raphael. He translates for Naru. RAPHAELOne way or another, you are going to help us. Big Beard signals to his men and they drag Taabe out. Naru strains in fury against the trappers holding her but she can not overpower them. The men bring her hands together as Big Beard walks behind her. He pulls a length of rope from around his waist and deftly binds Naru's wrists. Then shoves her forward, sending her landing on her face. avpgalaxy.net Big Beard points to Taabe and barks at his men. BIG BEARDGet him bleeding. Behind her, the men cut a line across Taabe’s chest. EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN70 70 Blackened trees protrude from the ground, evidence of a long passed fire that created the clearing. The air is thick with FOG that drifts between the burnt black trunks. Naru and Taabe stand in the middle of the glade. Their wrists are bound to each other’s with the burnt trunk of a tree between them. They’re ‘reverse hugging’ the trunk -- if one pulls forward, the other is pulled back into the tree. Naru speaks softly to her brother. NARUAre you hurt badly? Taabe spits out a tooth. TAABEThey tried. Naru scans the burnt field. The entire glade is in a shallow depression set below the trappers’ camp. Naru scans for any sign of the Frenchmen but it looks as if she and Taabe have been set out alone. She surveys the ground. All around them TRAPS have been set out. There is one a yard from Naru's feet. Naru pulls forward a little. Taabe groans. She does it again. Again Taabe complains. NARULean back. I think I can pull some slack out of the rope. Taabe doesn’t move. She tries again. He grunts. TAABEStop. Naru turns her head and peers through one eye over her shoulder toward her brother. Taabe does not face her. avpgalaxy.net NARUIf I can work slack... TAABENo. If they see you moving, they’ll tighten the ropes. They don’t want their bait to get away. Naru scans the surrounding forest again. The realization of how screwed they are sinks in. All the same, she keeps working the rope. Taabe grunts but knows he can’t stop her. TAABE Pâtsí, listen. Wasape, the others, they were all wrong about you. They said you can’t hunt because you’re a woman. Naru turns toward him. Taabe keeps his face turned away. TAABE That is a lie they told because they were frightened by your strength. We both know you’re a better hunter than all of them. Naru stops moving. TAABE You’re as good a hunter as me. The faintest hint of a smile comes on his face. TAABE Almost as good anyway. That’s not what keeps you from greatness. His smile vanishes. TAABE You know how I killed the lion? Your trap, the tree. You weakened it. When I fought it, it still had your lance in its back. You could have killed it. But you got scared and ran. A pained look comes across Naru's face. avpgalaxy.net TAABE A great hunter can be scared, but always be more scared of running. When I’m facing down my prey, I think of my feet as roots, binding me to the earth, making me stand my ground. A true hunter never runs from prey. Promise me you’ll remember that, pâtsí. Naru strains to look back at her brother. He turns to her as well. She nods. NARUI promise. Warchief. Taabe nods his appreciation. EXT. OBSERVATION POST ABOVE GLADE - DAWN71 71 A trapper, SPYGLASS, lies prone on the ground overlooking the glade. Through a telescope he observes Naru and Taabe bound to the tree. A second trapper, RAMBERT, kneels beside him. Behind him a team of FOUR TRAPPERS sit on HORSES, waiting to gallop down into the glade. The horses are tense, sensing the impending danger. The horsemen cruelly attempt to still the animals; their spurs dig in, reins pull too tight. RAMBERTWe should not have brought the horses. Spyglass replies without taking his eye off the telescope. SPYGLASSThe horses would be fine if the men knew how to control them. He continues to scan the glade below. The horses WHINNY nervously. SPYGLASS Silence them or the creature won’t show. Spyglass scopes back over to Naru and Taabe. Sees nothing. Behind him Horseman #1 drops to the ground, dead. The four horses run down into the glade. avpgalaxy.net Spyglass and Rambert turn back. See the four horsemen dead. A PREDATOR FOOTPRINT forms in their POOLED BLOOD. The Predator, cloaked, takes a step toward Rambert. Spyglass’s eyes go wide. SPYGLASS Shit. EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN72 72 Taabe watches the horses appear out of the fog, racing through the glade. A SCREAM echoes through the clearing. Spyglass appears -- running full speed toward Naru and Taabe. Spyglass looks back over his shoulder, his face a mask of fear. The Predator’s red sighting laser shines through the fog. Naru’s view of the trapper is blocked by the tree. She strains to see around it. THWWACK -- the Predator’s combistick lodges into a tree near Naru -- with Spyglass’s hat pierced on the end. EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN73 73 The Predator enters the glade. A swirl of ASH adheres to his camouflage cloak. He attempts to brushes it away, realizes it’s futile. Gives up and de-cloaks. Predator POV -- he scans the glade in Predator vision. Sees Naru and Taabe bound to the tree -- pans over and, using his targeting system, locates his combistick in the tree. He walks through the glade to retrieve his weapon. The ground is covered in hidden BEAR TRAPS. Beyond the traps, lying concealed from view, SIX TRAPPERS watch the Predator walk across the burnt ground. He takes another step -- SNNAAP -- a trap slams shut on his ankle. Confused but unfazed, the Predator looks down at the trap. TRAPPER #5Pull! avpgalaxy.net The six trappers, - spring up from their hiding holes -- they yank on CHAINS connected to the trap on the Predator’s foot. Tripped, the alien falls. His hand lands in a second TRAP which snaps shut. The trappers spring forward. Trapper #6 and Trapper #7 toss a rope NET to Trapper #8 and Trapper #9. They each hold a corner as they cover the Predator. EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN74 74 Naru peeks around the tree. Sees the trappers holding the Predator down. EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN75 75 TRAPPER #5We have him! As soon as he gets the words out -- SNNICK -- the Predator’sblades extend -- cut through the rope net -- and drive through the jaw of Trapper #5. With Trapper #5 still impaled, the Predator swings his arm -- crashes the blade down through Trapper #6’s chest. Trapper #7 shouts in terror -- the Predator pulls the metal SPHERE off his belt -- sailing through the air it expands revealing itself -- the Predator’s own metal NET! The device covers the trapper -- then contracts -- its metal web slicing through a LOG then dropping to the ground and forming a metal knot again. The Predator looks down at the trap on his foot. He reaches down to his belt, pulls the coiled, sectional device, a CUT-CLAMP. It unfurls. The Predator throws the clamp down at the trap and we see how it works -- the clamp cinches around the trap’s metal jaw like a snap bracelet, there’s a high-pitched whine as it self- tightens, then -- KRINNK -- the trap snaps in half and drops open. EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN76 76 Back at her tree, Naru looks down at the trap nearest her foot. She strains to hook her ankle over its chain, trying to bring the trap closer. But why? avpgalaxy.net EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN77 77 Trapper #8 squares off against the Predator. He pulls a long KNIFE. The Predator looks at the man. Then to his own hand which is still encased in a trap. He smashes the trap against a tree -- catches the heavy metal device as it opens -- throws it full force into Trapper #8’s face, killing him. Two bullets slam into the Predator’s back, drawing green blood and knocking him forward. He turns -- and unfolds his spiral metal SHIELD -- it unfurls on his arm like a Japanese fan forming a circle. As he turns to face three more trappers, their bullets bouncing off the alien metal shield. EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN78 78 Naru manages to hook her ankle around the chain leading to the bear trap. Her movement pulls hard on Taabe’s arms. He grunts in pain. TAABEWhat are you doing? Naru's voice is strained by the effort she’s putting in to drawing the trap closer. NARUDo you remember the flood when we were young? Taabe shifts as she pulls the trap closer. NARU The water came fast. The river swept everything downstream. She reaches farther. NARU I saw a beaver with it’s leg pinned between two rocks. EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN79 79 Raphael hides behind a tree, reloading his flintlock PISTOL as the Predator advances on the other trappers. avpgalaxy.net The Predator unfolds his shield. Snaps out his wrist blades. Trapper #9 advances wielding his musket like a club. The Predator cuts right through him -- Trapper #10 charges -- the Predator back hands him -- sending Trapper #10 crashing hard into a tree. Raphael fires into the Predator’s back. He turns -- throws a cut clamp -- it hits Raphael in the thigh -- severing his leg. avpgalaxy.net Trapper #11 swings his musket at the Predator -- he closes his hand around Trapper #11’s throat -- chokes him against a tree. As Trapper #11 reaches for a knife in his boot, Trapper #12 attacks from the Predator’s side -- swings a HATCHET down -- hits the Predator’s gauntlet -- the Predator grabs the HATCHET -- spins it end over end -- catches it by the handle - - slams it into Trapper #12. Still being choked, Trapper #11 grabs his knife -- but before he can use it the Predator unfurls his folding shield -- decapitating Trapper #11. Trapper #13 approaches from behind, loading his MUSKET -- he raises the weapon and fires, point blank, into the Predator’s face -- the bullet ricochets off the Predator’s mask and slams back through Trapper #13’s skull. EXT. OTHER SIDE OF THE BURNT GLADE - DAWN80 80 A line of TRAPPERS aim their muskets at the Predator. Big Beard stands among them. BIG BEARDFire! WAX MUSTACHEWe’ll hit the others!?
E: CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D demanding CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D whispering O.S. 30s surprised 30s CONT'D CONT'D 20s CONT'D CONT'D to his men CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D beat CONT'D beat CONT'D beat CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D
C: BIG BEARDFIRE!!!
D: EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN81 81 A hail of bullets sail past Naru -- piercing the trees around her and striking the trunk she and Taabe are bound to. EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN82 82 The Predator turns -- uses his shield to block the volley of shots coming from the other side of the glade. EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN83 83 She looks down. Finally has the trap close enough that she can use it. NARUThe water kept rising. avpgalaxy.net Naru bends down. NARU The beaver knew it would drown. She picks up a rock. Holds it over the trap. NARU So it chewed off its own leg. Taabe’s eyes widen as Naru lowers their bound wrists toward the trap. TAABE No. Wait. NARU It was worth it for the beaver to lose its leg to be free. TAABE Naru! She drops the rock onto the trap’s pressure plate.
E: CONT'D CONT'D
C: SNAAAP!
D: Taabe looks down. The trap’s metal jaws are clamped into the rope that binds their wrists. Naru pulls against the trap’s jagged edge -- the rope splits, freeing them. She moves around to the same side of the tree and looks at her brother, smiling. NARU I’m smarter than a beaver. Taabe smiles back. Working together they quickly unbind their other wrists. avpgalaxy.net EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN84 84 The Predator leaps from tree to tree, flying through the burnt glade. He passes Naru and Taabe as they stand, finally able to free themselves from the tree. EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN85 85 Taabe looks to the far side of the glade where the horses ran. TAABEI need a horse. Naru nods. Looks up at the trappers’ camp. NARUI’ll get Sarii. Taabe nods. They head off in opposite directions. avpgalaxy.net EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN86 86 The trappers fire up into the trees as the Predator sails by overhead. They stand in a cluster, aiming and missing. An ELECTRONIC BEEPING draws their attention. Trapper #14 turns to find the source of the strange sound. The Predator’s gauntlet lies in the dirt at their feet. Its display counting down in an strange glyph. It reaches zero. The gauntlet opens. Three sharp DISKS rise up out of the device. They spin, hovering at neck height. EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - DAY87 87 From above the glade we see LASERS cut through the fog -- the Predator’s gauntlet weapon dispatching the trappers. Naru steps into the camp. She spots her satchel near a crate by the campfire. Moving closer, she stays hidden. The remaining trappers peer nervously toward the scene of the fight. TRAPPER #17Do they need our help? Trapper #15 shakes his head. TRAPPER #18They’re beyond our help. I say we go. Trapper #14 looks back toward the battle. Nods agreement. TRAPPER #17What about the dog? TRAPPER #18I like dog. It tastes better than beaver. avpgalaxy.net Trapper #17 smiles and pulls his KNIFE. Walks toward Sarii. Naru jumps out. In one move, she scoops up a small PELT -reaches into the fire with it -- throws a handful of embers into the man’s face. As he bellows in pain she grabs his arm, redirects his wrist -- shoves the knife into his thigh. He drops. Trapper #18 draws his knife. Naru looks at her satchel on the crate right behind him. She charges -- uses the pelt to grab the hot PAN out of the fire -- slams it into Trapper #18. He drops but begins to rise again. A BULLET blasts into a tree near Naru. Trapper #19 quickly reloads. Naru pulls her tomahawk out of her satchel -- dispatches Trapper #18 just as he is about to stab her -- throws the tomahawk into Trapper #19 just in time -- he fires upward as he drops dead. Trapper #17 pulls his knife from his thigh, moves toward Naru. Naru yanks her tomahawk back -- but it comes back too fast, she fails to catch it. Trapper #17 gives an evil grin, charges -- Naru grabs Trapper #18’s knife -- throws it into Trapper #17’s other thigh -- he leans forward -- Naru dives between his legs, grabbing the knife back. Trapper #17 spins to face her -- Naru stabs through his hand - - he drops his knife -- she catches it and stabs him in theface. Naru looks around. She’s alone now. She walks to Sarii. Cuts him free. The dog licks her face. She points -- TiCh-TiCh. NARUFind Taabe. Sarii runs off, following her order. EXT. BURNT GLADE - SAME87A 87A87A 87A Dead trappers lay strewn about the clearing floor. avpgalaxy.net The Predator is sitting propped up against a tree. He opens his rucksack. Removes a CYLINDRICAL container. Presses the container against a bullet hole in his chest. A liquid alloy spreads out like liquid mercury -- sealing the wound. EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - DAY87B 87B Naru looks at the trappers’ gear. She empties a canteen of water onto her wounded leg. Drinks a second one down in a few gulps. She spots a coil of rope. Shoves it into her bag. She creeps farther into the camp. Surveys the scene, she takes a breath. CLICK -- a gun is cocked behind her. Without looking, in one perfectly fluid move, Naru yanks her tomahawk back into her hand, spins and swings it to slice into her assailant -- Raphael. But the weakened man instantly drops his flintlock PISTOL, and raises his hands in surrender. Naru hesitates. She keeps the hatchet back, ready to strike, and surveys the man. He’s kneeling. Pale from the blood loss caused by his lost leg. He drops to the ground, unable to even kneel. RAPHAELHelp me. Naru stares at the man. Unmoved. RAPHAEL Please. Water. Please. Naru eyes the flintlock PISTOL. Raphael sees what she’s looking at. RAPHAEL Help me and I’ll show you how to use it. Naru grabs a canteen and moves to Raphael. She hands it to him and as he drinks she examines his leg. She ties a length of rope around his thigh just above where it was severed. He groans as she tightens the tourniquet. Naru takes the canteen from Raphael. Pouring water over the wound she sees that the Predator’s cut-clamp is still attached -- locked on the edge of his bone. avpgalaxy.net Naru reaches out and touches the device. Raphael winces. She flips a lever -- the clamp pops open. Naru studies the clamp. She cleans it with more water and puts it in her satchel. Raphael looks at her pleadingly and she gives him back the canteen. He takes a huge swallow. Then points to Naru's medicine pouch. RAPHAEL You have medicine. Naru stares back at him with cold eyes. RAPHAEL Please. Naru slowly removes her medicine pouch. She looks at Raphael’s leg, then separates out a handful of the same orange flower petals she gave Puhi. She mixes them with the mushrooms from the pouch at her waist, then holds the medicine out to Raphael who reaches for it eagerly with his sweaty hand. Naru pulls her hand back. She pulls the flintlock out of Raphael’s belt. Raphael nods and gestures for her to hand it to him. Naru holds the edge of her tomahawk to his throat and stands close. As she watches, Raphael pulls a POWDER HORN from his belt. He pours powder from the horn into the pistol, primes the flint with a few grains, drops a ball of shot down the barrel, uses the ramrod to tamp it down. Then he hands the pistol and the horn to Naru. He touches the hammer. RAPHAEL Pull that back and it will fire. Naru cocks the hammer. As she examines the weapon we catch a glimpse of the engraving on its side: “Raphael Adolini 1715.” Raphael looks down at his leg. He’s woozy. RAPHAEL Please. Naru looks at him. Considers. She hands him the medicine. Raphael swallows it eagerly. avpgalaxy.net For a beat he’s still. Then it hits like wave crashing -- an intense spasm of frantic convulsions, Raphael slams off the dirt floor -- then he lies still. After a moment his eyes pop open and he stares at Naru. He’s shivering frantically. His teeth chattering. Naru hears a NOISE in the trees. Something big moving. She gets up. Raphael looks at her with pleading eyes. RAPHAEL Don’t leave me here. Naru backs away holding his pistol. RAPHAEL Wait. Please. Don’t leave me. But Naru keeps moving. SCENE 88 HAS BECOME SCENE 87A88 88 EXT. EDGE OF TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME89 89 Naru hides behind the trunk of a huge tree. She examines the pistol and the powder horn. Takes a deep breath. Runs toward the next tree, heading back to the clearing. Making it, she stops. Looks down at the wounds on her leg from the trap. They’re bleeding again. EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME90 90 The Predator walks into the staging area. Looks at the trappers’ gear and the empty canteens. He moves on, following a long BLOOD TRAIL. EXT. TREES BY THE GLADE - SAME91 91 Naru peers back into the camp. Watches the Predator exploring. Behind him, Raphael, terrified, drags himself toward the tree line. The Predator hears a noise. He turns. Raphael holds still. avpgalaxy.net EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME92 92 The Predator walks toward where Raphael cowers, shivering and terrified. The Predator gets closer. And closer. Then walks right by him -- it’s as if he can’t see the man. EXT. TREES BY THE GLADE - SAME93 93 Naru watches the Predator. He stops near Raphael, she looks confused. Why isn’t he killing the trapper? Seeing Raphael shivering against the cold -- Naru figures it out -- the medicine she gave him has rendered Raphael invisible to the Predator. She opens her pouch and looks at the orange flower petals, then back at the Predator, he’s standing right next to the trapper yet unable to see him! EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME94 94 Delirious with terror, Raphael holds still. The alien takes a step back. Examines a pool of blood on the ground right by Raphael. He takes another step -- his foot comes down on Raphael’s knee -- the man yells out in pain. The Predator tilts his head -- confused. He snaps out his wrist blades. Puts them through Raphael’s skull. EXT. TREES BY THE GLADE - SAME95 95 Naru slowly backs away. She hears a rustling. The Predator hears it too. He scans the woods. Sees a blur of movement. Aims his crossbow. He walks back toward the burnt glade. Scanning. Still can’t get a lock on his target. Then suddenly, Sarii charges out of the forest, barking. The Predator turns. Aims his lasers at the dog. Fires. avpgalaxy.net As the arrows launch -- the thunderous sound of HOOVES - Taabe charges into the glade on horseback -- SMAAKK -- hits the side of the Predator’s head with the combistick -- a direct blow -- Mark McGwire crushing a fastball. The Predator’s helmet is knocked off -- it falls to the dirt. With the helmet on the ground, its lasers, the target guidance system -- now point away from Sarii. Naru follows the line of the three red lasers -- they’re now aimed at the base of a nearby tree. She watches closely as the Predator’s arrows sail around, adjusting their aim to the new target point, then slam harmlessly into the base of the tree. As they hit, Sarii makes it through the clearing. Naru studies the Predator’s arrows lodged in the tree -- the lasers from his helmet still shine on the aim points. Naru looks up. Taabe steers the horse into the camp -- grabs his bow and quiver -- turns the horse back -- rides straight at the Predator, firing. His aim is true -- but the arrows bounce off of the Predator’s shield -- as Taabe nears, he drops his bow -- lifts the combistick -- prepares to smash the alien again. The hooves stomp -- Taabe is almost to him -- at the last second, he leaps off the horse, drives the combistick, through the Predator’s shoulder. The alien lets out an angry snarl, grabs the front half of the combistick, allows the second half to drop, catches it and moves in, enticed by the prospect of hand-to-hand combat. As the two circle, the fight is glaringly one-sided -- but there’s a fearsome look of determination on Taabe’s face. They close and begin to battle, parrying back and forth. As Taabe attacks, the Predator cloaks. Taabe holds his bow, arrow nocked, ready to fire. He scans for the Predator. Naru approaches. She shoves the flintlock pistol back in her belt. Draws her tomahawk as she walks to Taabe. NARULet’s go. avpgalaxy.net Taabe continues to search for his foe. TAABE No, I’ve got this, Naru. Naru takes a step closer. Shakes her head. NARU Not here. Here it has strength. We need to go where we’re stronger. Taabe looks at his sister. Realizes she’s right. He lowers his bow -- as the blades from the Predator’s gauntlet pierce through his body. Naru stares at her brother in horror. She raises her tomahawk. Steps in to fight. The Predator turns to face her. Taabe grabs the skull off the Predator’s belt -- drives the fangs into the alien’s back. The Predator turns back to Taabe. Taabe looks at his sister. TAABE Go! The Predator kills Taabe. Then turns back to Naru. But she’s gone. avpgalaxy.net EXT. FOREST HILL - DAY95A 95A Naru runs down the hill. She moves as fast as she can on her wounded leg. The effort to keep going is painful. She’s drenched in perspiration. avpgalaxy.net EXT. DEEP FOREST STREAM - DAY96 96 Naru runs as fast as she can on her wounded leg. The effort to keep moving is painful. She’s drenched in perspiration. She crosses the stream then traverses the opposing bank which is covered in tangled tree roots. As she climbs up the ridge her injured leg gives out. Naru crashes to the ground. And lies there. Sarii pops out of the woods behind her. He runs through the stream to Naru and licks her face. Naru pushes herself up and sits. Naru pulls her leg up toward her body and checks her wounds. Reaching down toward the stream she tears out a handful of wet moss. She crawls toward a deep pocket where the tree’s root structure bends over the bank of the stream -- a dark nook, concealed from view. Naru nestles herself inside, folding her body to fit in the natural alcove. Sarii climbs in after her. She pulls her pouch and removes some herbs. Naru mixes the other herbs in with the moss and packs the wounds on her leg. It’s painful work but she steadies her hands. Soldiers through. When she’s done she leans back in the tree. Rests. EXT. NARU’S CAMP - DUSK97 97 Aruka stands outside alone. She’s working a HIDE; scraping and stretching the animal skin. The sound of HOOVES galloping. Tabu and another SCOUT ride up to the camp. Aruka stares as they hop off their HORSES. Tabu looks to the scout. Gestures with his head toward Kehetu’s tipi and the man heads in that direction. Aruka watches intently as Tabu approaches her, He’s nervous. ARUKA Tell me. avpgalaxy.net TABU There was a large battle in the glade. Many dead men. Most were white. But Taabe was among them. Aruka’s face floods with grief. She holds it back. Steadies herself. Soldiers through. ARUKA Naru? Tabu shakes his head. TABUWe’ve found nothing yet. EXT. DEEP FOREST STREAM - DUSK98 98 Naru rests in the tree. She hears FOOTSTEPS approaching. Shifts in the nook. Pulls the flintlock pistol and peers out with one eye. The footsteps get closer. Big Beard steps into view. He looks nervous, rattled. Keeps looking back over his shoulder. He walks down to the bank of the stream. Stops. Bends to wash his face in the water. Begins to fill his leather CANTEEN. Naru aims the pistol at his head. Holds for a beat. Thinking. She looks at Sari. Leans down close to the dog. NARUHome, Sarii, now. She signals -- TiCh-TiCh -- But Sarii doesn’t move. Naru glares at him. NARU I do this alone. Sarii stares at her another beat. Then follows Naru’s order. Naru puts the flintlock pistol in her belt. Pulls her medicine pouch. Opening it, she sorts out the bright orange flower petals that we saw her give Puhi and Raphael earlier. She looks at the orange petals in her palm. It’s a huge dose. Naru mixes in the mushrooms. Then swallows it all. avpgalaxy.net Her muscles instantly convulse. Gritting her teeth, Naru reaches into her satchel and pulls something out. As Naru returns her focus to Big Beard standing in the stream we see what she’s holding -- the Predator’s cut clamp unfurls in her hand. EXT. CLEARING IN THE WOODS - NIGHT99 99 Snow drifts down from above. Big Beard is lying on the ground on his back. Sweat on his forehead glistens in the light of a large BONFIRE burning nearby. A RAT scurries by. Then another. The big man’s eyes pops open. He looks down at his leg -- the lower half of the limb is gone -- three RATS gnaw at the savage wound. With a SCREAM he slaps them away. He draws his leg up. Examines the damage. Charred flesh marks where the end of his stump has been cauterized. He rolls over. HOWLS in pain. Sees his canteen and the rest of his gear lying on the ground several yards away. Beyond the small pile of his possessions is his musket. Grunting in fury, he crawls quickly toward the weapon. Naru steps out of the woods. She’s holding Big Beard’s boot. The trapper crawls faster. He’s furious. Spit flies from his lips as he shouts. BIG BEARDIdiot savage. Naru walks calmly. Racing, he drags himself toward his gun. BIG BEARD You are going to die. Naru shakes her head. Tosses his boot into the fire. NARUYou think I’m stupid. Shivering, her teeth chatter. But she walks with purpose moving toward the fire. avpgalaxy.net NARU But your trap didn’t work. The trapper is almost to his musket. Naru stands near the flames. But because of the medicine the skin on her arms is still covered in goosebumps. NARU It only hunts the hunter. EXT. WOODS, PREDATOR POV - SAME100 100 In Predator vision the alien surveys the scene. The bonfire glows bright in his display. He sees Big Beard aiming his musket in his direction. But he does not see Naru! Just as with Raphael, the medicine has rendered her invisible. EXT. CLEARING IN THE WOODS - NIGHT101 101 Big Beard pulls the trigger. An empty click. He quickly examines the weapon. He hears the thud of heavy FOOTFALLS. He turns, facing the noise, holding his useless weapon. Naru stands close by. Holding still. Shivering as the snow falls around her. Lying in wait. The Predator uncloaks. Big Beard’s eyes go wide in terror. The Predator extends his combistick -- spins it in his hands, preparing to deal the death blow with a flourish -- Naru is so close to him the weapon clips her hair as he spins it -- yet the Predator does not see her. Naru’s cut hair drifts to the ground -- as Big Beard’s head and body separate -- severed by the Predator. The alien leans down to examine Big Beard’s skull. As he bends down we see Naru -- standing behind him -- aiming the flintlock pistol right at the back of Predator’s head. avpgalaxy.net As the Predator stands -- KRAACK -- Naru fires. Shoved forward by the shot -- the Predator’s helmet flies off. Naru rushes out -- grabs the helmet -- puts it in her bag as she dashes into the woods. The Predator stands. Feels the back of his head where the bullet grazed his thick skull. Sees his green blood glowing in his palms. ROARS! OMITTED102 102 avpgalaxy.net EXT. FOREST FLOOR - NIGHT103 103 The Predator scans the forest floor in the direction Naru continued on. Spots a blood trail. The Predator moves on, following the trail. It leads around a bend in the path. A thick growth of plants. The Predator pushes through. EXT. CLEARING INSIDE THE NATURAL HEDGE - NIGHT104 104 Pausing, he surveys the area ahead. Sees something odd on the ground. He moves toward it. And now we see where Naru has led him -- the moss above the sinkhole. In the center of the moss is Big Beard’s leg. The Predator studies the severed limb from afar. But the Predator is cagey. He stops at the edge, peers down, recognizing what may be a trap. EXT. TREE - NIGHT105 105 Up on a branch, Naru looks down at the Predator’s back. Waits for him to step forward. He doesn’t. So she leaps down -- EXT. CLEARING INSIDE THE NATURAL HEDGE - CONTINUOUS106 106 Naru’s crashes down on to the Predator’s back -- the alien staggers forward -- but just manages to avoid stepping into the mud pit! Naru slams to the ground behind him. As the Predator turns she draws her tomahawk -- They battle hand-to-hand. avpgalaxy.net The Predator using his strength and experience. Naru using her wit and sheer force of will. Along with everything she’s learned watching the Predator. His weapons and techniques. Sarii returns from the woods to help. The dog’s ferocious loyalty allows Naru an important moment in the battle. But then he is endangered. And she must help. During the fight, Naru leads the Predator into position in the pit. He sinks. Deeper and deeper. Then stops, waist deep. Unfazed, the Predator draws his crossbolt. Aims it dead at Naru. The weapon activates -- its sharp, lethal blades shine in the light. Naru stares right into the weapon. One pull of the trigger and she’s dead. But Naru does not move. She holds her ground. Naru speaks quietly to herself. NARUMy feet are roots. Naru glares defiantly down the barrel of the alien weapon. The Predator fires. The bolts sail out toward Naru. But Naru doesn’t flinch. She stares the Predator dead in the eye. Then looks to his side. There, propped between two rocks -- his helmet -- the Predator is right in position where she wanted him. The red laser sights are pointing directly at him -- Naru set him up -- used his own targeting system against him. avpgalaxy.net The arrows sail up in a loop -- they pass Naru -- and whip back down -- where they slam home -- into the Predator. The Predator gasps. Chokes. Coughs green blood out of his pierced lungs. Falls backward. Dead. Naru stands. Retrieves her tomahawk. Walks to the Predator. Grabs a handful of dreadlocks -- pulls his head back exposing his neck -- lifts the hatchet. As she brings the weapon down to strike we -- CUT TO: INT. WARCHIEF KEHETU’S TIPI - MORNING107 107 Kehetu sits by the fire. Sumu is beside him holding his hand. The old warchief coughs. He struggles to get up and walk to the stew pot. It’s difficult. His old knees are tired. Sumu helps him sit back down. Brings him the stew. She looks at her husband. It pains her to say this. But she has to. SUMU We will need a new warchief. Kehetu looks into his wife’s face. Considers the truth of her words. After a beat the flap of the tipi opens. The young Comanche girl enters. She stares at the adults for a beat. Then looks at Kehetu. GIRLCome and see. She rushes back out of the tipi. The others follow. avpgalaxy.net EXT. NARU'S CAMP - DAY108 108 Sumu and the Elders stare out into the tall grass. The rest of the tribe quickly gathers behind them. Sumu gestures and a young Comanche MAN goes into her tipi. He returns a moment later helping Kehetu along. Aruka makes her way up to join them. She has a fresh CUT LINE on her shoulder. As Kehetu is led to the front of the crowd he squints into the distance. A lone figure moves through the tall grass toward them. avpgalaxy.net It’s Naru. Her body is soaked in green blood. Her face is painted in her own style using the Predator’s fluorescent green blood. The Comanche in the camp look on in awe as Naru, with Sarii at her side, walks toward them. Aruka stares in stunned silence. As Naru gets close, sherushes to her. They embrace. Each has a fresh CUT LINE on their shoulder. The others gape at what Naru's holding. Marveling at her accomplishment as a hunter. They stare in fascination at the head of the Predator. Naru's prey. Naru walks to Kehetu. She lays the alien’s head at his feet. The old warchief looks at the Predator’s face. Naru pulls the flintlock pistol from her belt. Hands it to Kehetu. He regards the foreign weapon, then sets it down. Then he turns back to Naru, studying her. NARUThere’s danger nearby. We should move to more easily protected ground. The old warchief stares at her. Sees something he missed before. Mirroring his actions when Taabe returned with the mountain lion, Kehetu puts his hands on Naru's shoulders. Stares deeply into her eyes. Kehetu hobbles back to his tipi. The crowd watches, silent now. The warchief returns. He’s carrying the carved staff he gave to Taabe. He leans forward. Takes Naru by the hands. He presses the staff into her palms. Walks back to his tipi. Naru looks into the crowd. But unlike Taabe, she’s not basking in the glory of adulation. Naru's expression is pensive as she contemplates the enormity of the battles to come. avpgalaxy.net Naru looks down at the staff. Then she looks to her mother. Aruka looks back, her face a mix of sadness, fear, pride, and then reverence. Naru looks into the crowd. She spots the face of the little Comanche girl. She’s standing in the grass, holding a bag for collecting wood. The girl sets her bag down. Looks up with pride. Smiles at the new warchief.
E: CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D beat holds a painful beat CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D CONT'D page 84A
C: THE END
N: avpgalaxy.net
